to one and they stopped already I'm
getting on uh a lot there's a lot
happening do you have a hot take on this
Andy
what's your hot take I get text messages
from people saying you know give me the
inside scoop as to what's happening and
what I should do
yeah and I don't have a good answer I
have the same information sources that
everybody else does my concern is not
that we shouldn't protect people that
are sick and people that are old my
concern is that these decisions are
being done by politicians and that they
they want to do this so that they can be
elected come reelection they don't want
people to be upset at them for not
acting and so they're making these
decisions and they're not showing us
exactly how they're going to get out of
this like when you're shutting down Los
Angeles for a month did just the
staggering amount of people that are
gonna be in debt and and and there's
some number that we looked it up
recently of the amount of people that
live check to check it's crazy it's like
half of America the average American the
stat I saw was that they cannot absorb
an expense outside of the normal over
$400 right that's gone that's already
gone so already most americans are
fucked
now just with this dip and then they're
talking about extending this to April
19th I just don't I don't know if they
have a plan I don't know how they're
gonna buy their way out of this like
what do you do how do you how do you
help those folks I mean I'm the wrong
person to ask about that but I would I
would hope at least that the politicians
I'm sure there's an aspect always if you
are a politician in the back of your
mind I have to conduct myself in a way
where I can get reelected like
everything is probably viewed through
that but I would hope at least that
they're viewing it through the humanity
perspective and as far as the decisions
that are making I don't think anybody
knows what to do yeah I don't think
anybody knows what to do either they
feel like they have to do something so
they're doing something we all need to
look at edges elbow because that guy
looks fucking great he does it still
he's got it he's got it and there's I
mean he seems
Tom Hanks he says he's just kind of
tired it's I I can't make heads or tails
of it because if you go the longer you
spend on your phone I think the more or
your computer I think the more confused
you'll actually become because I don't
know to be honest who's telling the
truth and who is not there's stories of
people saying hey I tested positive for
this I don't have any symptoms hey I
live in Italy three people are dead in
my hallway and I got sick and I don't
feel that good and then you watch people
walking around in zombie apocolypse
suits with you know mop level 4 gear on
not listening to you know how you know
we're walking on the beach yesterday and
you know there's there people who's huge
social bubbles they don't want to be
near each other
mm-hmm and from what I can tell or from
what I'm reading and again it's it's so
heads or tails you know you basically
have to be coughed on or sneezed on or
touch the surface that one of these
infected people have touched or close
proximity and there's people on the
beach walking around in hazmat suits
it's awhile time it's a wild time
because of that because there's no clear
information and because you're seeing
some people that look really healthy and
then you've seen the stories that come
out of Italy one thing to take into
consideration with Italy is Italy has
one of the oldest populations they have
a lot of old people and a shit ton of
smokers those two factors are huge here
because this is a respiratory disease
well don't they also have in comparison
to the rest of the world more
generations living in a single household
yes with you know I would imagine is
going to be you know as those
generations move on you're gonna have
high-risk people living with people who
are lower risk but not transmitting it
yes that's the real concern the real
concern is you're gonna transmit it to
your grandma or someone who's sick there
was a guy it's it's weird how the news
gives you these stories because this is
a guy that was 34 years old that died
and they said he just got back from
Disneyland he's like fuck I thought you
lived forever once you go to Disneyland
this is crazy he just got back to
Disneyland how like the fact that they
put that he just got back from
Disneyland it's all heart string-pulling
stuff but then if you go deep into the
story this this young man just got over
testicular cancer
he had bronchitis and he had asthma
so there's a lot going on that hit the
deck stacked against him deck stacked
against him he's immune-compromised for
sure because of coming off of the
testicular cancer and then on top of
that with asthma and bronchitis and then
he gets a respiratory disease those are
the people that really have to worry and
I really wish there was a clearer way to
help them other than shutting down
everything for a month I was talking to
Evan haver this morning who called out
of the blue and we were having kind of a
conversation about this and he brought
something up that just about the you
know the narrative and it's to me what's
happening right now is is it's
interesting from a couple of
perspectives for one I've travelled into
world enough and seen people living in a
variety of different living conditions
that right now in my opinion at least
people are getting a glimpse into what
it is like to live in the non-first
world mmm where when maybe you mean have
a grocery store but if you go there you
can't get everything that you want and
you can't travel all you know when you
always want to you don't have the
freedom of movement that you want a lot
of people live their life take the virus
out of the equation a lot of people live
their life day to day in situations just
like this or much worse so I think it
should be i opening hopefully for people
that there's a thin margin between you
know the excess and luxury that we have
in the first world and how fast that can
be removed we can start stepping down
that staircase mm-hmm
and it shows to me you know it I I try
to view the videos that you see online
of people fist fighting for a toilet
paper I think those are the anomaly and
I try not to let the anomaly paint the
norm I don't think most people are doing
that but there are people that are doing
that and there are people who are going
in and they're hoarding and buying it's
I don't think with toilet papers are
getting example I can give you 15
different ways to wipe your ass without
toilet paper yeah like you're gonna be
okay
like if do you have a garden hose I mean
we can start there I'm not saying it's
the most sanitary pub yeah I think I've
wiped my ass with a handful gravel one
time because that's all that I had I'm
not recommending it but I'm just you
know really oh for sure cool it was
wasn't like close to yeah Wayne why not
I
I mean I have had many mega cleaner I
didn't really check I didn't have too
much time but I've had many days where I
started with two socks and ended with
one I've had t-shirts that became tank
tops I mean there's options that you
have
none of these I'm recommending for
anybody but what I'm saying is the
toilet paper is not gonna make the
difference between life or there's a
weird one the Horde it's a weird one
that people are freaking out about oh
because we're scared food well but
they're scared and I find that when
people get scared like we were talking
about right before we went on when
people get drunk a couple of the layers
of they're protective like this is who I
want to portray myself it starts to
strip away and what I see are people who
are super concerned about me and far
less concerned about we and the
conversation I was having with Devin was
you know it'd be great if we were
talking about you know the people who
are gonna get crushed and I'm not a you
know an economic expert by any stretch
but are the ones you already talked
about her living paycheck to paycheck
how about the elderly who are in the
high-risk category that are on Social
Security fixed income and they can't
even go out right now because they don't
feel comfortable we're getting groceries
that people are gonna get destroyed and
I would love to have a conversation
about a social construct or relationship
that we have where we start talking
about you know what are we gonna do to
get food and aid to these people what
are we gonna do to come together and
help everybody out
instead of assholes and Target hoarding
toilet paper
yeah and it's to me a lot of that is
driven by fear and a lot of is driven by
panic and believe me I'm not an expert
at all probably on anything in my life
but one thing that I have some
experience in is surviving and thriving
in high-risk situations that are
high-stress which is kind of what's
going on right now it's a different type
of stress and the most dangerous thing
you can do is lose control your emotions
or let your emotions take over your
decision-making cycle which is what I
see people doing and it's it's so
dangerous and I think we need to start
finding ways to back away from that and
start talking about the we greater than
me
I don't think there's a toilet paper
shortage there's a shortage of people
with common sense who are buying too
much toilet paper which is freaking
other people out so they're buying too
much stuff which they don't actually
need which is freaking up you know what
I mean it's just a cascading effect yeah
it's a fear cascade you know it's not
good
it's not good it's also this is the
first time we've as a nation have been
tested like this with it with a crisis
where the country had shut down we have
any experience in it so we don't know
what to expect what I hope is it it
gives me a little bit of flashes is the
right after 9/11 because we have had
times where the country shut down but it
was very very brief mm-hmm but I
remember like the Solidarity after 9/11
and was all about we and not about me
and I hope that it trends that direction
because who knows when this is gonna end
I mean my kids are out of school I think
for the year yeah I think mine as well
and you know what if you're a single
parent yeah and you have to work right
and what if your kids are getting two of
their three meals per day yeah that's
cool and and I you know the school
system in Montana where I live is
already you know they're actually doing
a really good job come to these
locations you can get free meals but
that's assuming the kid has a way to get
there because well Montana's scalable
right there's a million people in the
entire state the state's the fucking
massive it's not out of control
California is 40 million fucking people
and it's one spot it's so preposterous
yeah and there's so much poverty there's
so many people that are we're barely
hanging on as it is and now they're off
the cliff and they don't know what to do
and there's no real protection set in
place now to keep them from being
evicted I don't believe you know I know
unscrupulous landlords people have been
looking for a reason to get rid of the
first place fuck man who knows who know
who knows what's gonna go on it's real
confusing it's real confusing and have
you seen the stats like the here I'm
gonna show this to you Jamie maybe we
could put this up on the on the screen
because it's kind of it's it's it's
really kind of crazy that this is the
choice that they've made to shut
everything down um I'm supposed to right
now well you know it's funny right they
made that choice last night so we got we
got here Thursday so a day before they
made that decision and the decision was
made last night and went into effect and
exactly the same amount of people are
still out yeah exactly the same amount I
mean there's no real law I mean it's
more of a recommendation than anything
but they do have to close businesses
well I think they're hoping that people
do buy into a social contract like maybe
we can care about the we yeah over me
but I just
you see people not doing that
they're pressed yeah and that and that
gets rough so here's the numbers right
the hospitalizations intensive care unit
admission case by case fatality
percentages reported for kovat nineteen
by eighteen Cova nineteen by age group
so this is up until March 16th was just
a couple days ago so 0 to 19 there's a
hundred twenty three cases one point six
to two point five or hospitalized 0 ICU
zero fatality so then you get twenty to
forty four that's you seven hundred and
five cases fourteen point three to 20.8
hospitalizations to two for ICU and 0.1
to 0.25 now you got to think those
people have pre-existing conditions just
looking at those numbers 45 to 54 that's
my age group 429 cases less for some
weird reason 21 to 28 hospitalization
five point four to ten point for ICU one
point four to two point six fatality
again
you gotta think those people have
pre-existing conditions and it gets all
the way up to really old let's go to 85
Plus as Callens age that's Callens age
yeah hundred and forty for a hospital
144 cases 31 out of 144 to 70 hospitals
they so 31.3 to 70.3 hospitalization six
to twenty nine ICU fatalities ten to
twenty seven so the vast majority of
fatalities you look at in people between
75 and 84 which is four point three to
ten point five and then 85 Plus which is
ten point four to twenty seven point
three so it's it's really obviously not
good for really old people it looks like
you got a 25% fatality rate at the worst
case scenario for hospitalized people
that have the case but again for young
healthy people it's not what it's being
it's not it's not the big monster that
everybody thinks it is I mean there's
people running around terrified that are
young and healthy well then there's no
concern is older
so there's other spectrum too there's
the young people running around
terrified and healthy and then there's
the people who are mobbing beaches in
Florida on Spring Break saying our
future leaders fuck it
ah they'll be gone by the time there are
the future leaders but yeah hilarious
but and you have to assume though that
those numbers are completely inaccurate
but I would imagine the number because
of the lack of testing but there's
percentages are probably still the same
mm-hmm you know I think there's probably
just bigger numbers yeah it's uh
well kids are just gonna be kids man you
get 18 year olds on the beach in Florida
they're there to fuck they're not
worried about catching the co vid 19
they don't even know what the fuck that
is their brains aren't even formed yet
yes my 9 year old says they have mushy
brains I was trying to explain to the 9
year old what uh the the development of
the frontal lobe is and I'm like you
know because we were just talking about
I talked to my kids like they're kids
but I also talk to them like they're
adults I did the same in that I lay
things out and then I explained so I lay
things out like I'd laid to an adult and
then I'm like your frontal lobe is a
part of your brain that makes the
decisions and it's not fully developed
here 25 years old and so you see the
little 9 year old brain spinning I go
it's not not really ready yet she says
she was just like so it's like squishy
brain I go exactly sir nine-year-old
ocular I like this is how she explained
to my wife and then her and I had this
little conversation about squishy brain
and I'm like this is this is what the
frontal lobe is this is like when you
see people that are young they're doing
stupid things it's not even necessarily
that they're stupid it's is they they're
just acting that is they're wild you
know they're they're free their parents
probably tell them what to do too much
the school tells them what to do too
much their job tells them what to do too
much and then they're out and they have
a couple fuckin Miller High Life say no
and they're like by the way have you
seen the coronavirus song yet I see
posters I see it i watch it again I have
you seen Jamie roll it let's we can't
play it no really think so you need to
respect other promote intellectual
property how I work wouldn't help them
how it works what it means is that on
Spotify or even do they have a label
they definitely could I think they're
comics they could go on and
take the video down no no we're trying
to help you guys sorry
go to my Instagram I was just gonna say
this probably is where I saw it yeah I
might have washed it fiber
yeah the ten times if you want me to no
that's okay you're right but the
gentleman who who made it these guys
admit one of the one of them reached out
to me and I fucked up it's Reggie baby
be EE to and then there's a fucking
Reggie baby EE to underscore that's a
fake account those cunts and so I
accidentally tagged the fake account
it's gonna say that's how mistakes
happen but now I got the real tip well
it's just some fucking hoax or who's
pretended to be him but the fake one is
the one that has the underscore after
the two those pieces of shit
that's the real dude Reggie baby I mean
how's your wife think about what's going
on she's not concerned about us she's
concerned about her mom you know which
we should be and I'm concerned about my
parents as well yeah you know and more
concerned that people are freaking out
and that you know there's a lot of
people around us that have never been
tested and they're not good under stress
and this is a this is a very unusual
stress because there's no clear answer
not from the president not from the
doctors it's not no one has a real clear
answer of how to fix this when it's
going to be fixed yeah and when you hear
things about like a vaccine will be
available in 18 months like what well
and if you continue reading that says if
it is available in 18 months that would
be three times faster than normal
Wow so it that would be on the very
front leading edge of what would be
possible to get in people's hands normal
would be 3x that in osterholm the guy
who was on the podcast that really
sparked a lot of people to take this
very seriously
excellent podcast by the way yeah he's
amazing and he said that they could have
had a corona virus vaccine that once
SARS happened SARS which is also a
corona virus they could have worked on
developing a corona virus vaccine then
and that we are far too flippant about
how we approach these things and if it's
not there right in our face they don't
allocate resources towards those kind of
things I think our society
is kind of defined by its excess and
luxury and when you live in that
environment and I'm not saying it
negatively at all but if you live in
that environment if you never leave that
environment if you don't bend yourself
before the world bends you a little bit
shits gonna come off the rails when you
get pressed yeah and that's where the
behavior of people scares me far more
than the actual virus itself I mean I
have no control over if I get the virus
in how that plays itself out for me I
cannot control that but I can control my
behavior and how I act and try to exude
calm like when it comes to my kids or my
family my friends my social circle but
yeah I wish I wit I hope that people on
the other side of this because it's not
gonna be the end of the world but I hope
on the other side it gives them an a
greater understanding and appreciation
and perspective of what we have how
lucky we are and then just maybe to
think about you know the people what's
the obesity rate in the u.s. right now
forty percent yeah how about we work on
that just a touch considering that's one
of the highest risk factors right
instead of allowing that excess and you
know luxury to define you
yeah how about that's something you can
control what all times yeah you can't
control whether or not you have a
disease or whether or not you're old but
you certainly can control whether or not
you're fat the problem is people in my
experience spend a lot of time energy
and effort focusing on things that they
cannot control and that is definitely
one thing that I learned from my old job
is that at some point you have to
surrender the emotional and mental
horsepower on the things that you can't
control and only focus on the things
that you can which is specifically
yourself like you can't control what
happens to you but you can control how
you receive what happens to you and
being scared allowing that to make the
decision-making process for you is what
gets people in substantial trouble like
I'll give you an example for my old job
getting shot at is not awesome it's
actually it can be quite terrifying and
the number one rule of a firefight if
you get into a gunfight is to win but
the first thing you need to do is you
need to shoot back with overwhelming
fire superiority and then you have to
maneuver right you have to pin your
enemy in place and then you have to
maneuver but let's say they you get
ambushed and you're on the receiving end
of that and so you take a knee behind
the wall and bullets are snapping
your head and you don't want to move
because you're scared and you think I'm
gonna die so you have fear of death
which is totally real and it can
paralyze people and instead of moving
you sit there and other people maneuver
around you that fear of death preventing
you from doing the things that you had
control over shooting back
maneuvering coordinating with your team
that fear paralyzes you and external
circumstances are the enemy that you're
fighting will maneuver around you and
then they're gonna end up killing you
but the reason you didn't move is you
allowed that emotion to take over your
decision-making process you have to
detach the two chocolate talks about it
a lot and it's just reinforced
constantly in training in in operations
overseas and that be like that's because
people ask me what should I do and my
biggest thing is just try to remain as
objective as possible you see people
freaking out that doesn't mean that you
need to freak out and you know another
way I've had it described to me that
made a big influence on me and the way I
think about things if you think about
two circles like an archery target but
there's only two circles there's a the
bowl the ten ring which is super small
and then damn it doubly where you want
to need you what's the big ring the one
on the outside yeah like five yes so it
goes ten nine eight out whatever the
lowest-scoring ring is that would be the
other once you get two circles and the
big circle is your circle of concern and
the small circle is your circle of
influence I see and the dangerous thing
that I see often is people spending all
their time with their energy and effort
on the circle of concern what's going on
in the stock market what's going on on
Fox News what's going on on CNN sharing
back and forth things on Facebook that I
probably am half am aren't even true
anyway no research put into it is there
gonna be enough toilet paper what do I
do about this they don't have control
over any of those things but that's the
stuff that they're worried about yeah
and the only thing that you should spend
your time energy and effort working on
are the things directly inside of your
circle of influence and even inside of
that one there could be the circle of
control and what do you have control
over at all times the things that come
out of your mouth how you behave whether
or not you allow your emotions to
override your decision-making process
the way that you communicate whether or
not you decide to work out as opposed to
four thousand excess calories in your
face every single day if you focus on
those things and put your time energy
and effort in there you're gonna get
through stressful situations just fine
because you actually have more mental
capacity because you're trimming off
other things you can't control
mmm the thing about things you can't
control those some people or theirs
they're thinking that this is one of
those things that if you were a paranoid
person and you prepped and worried about
the future you would have already
stockpiled enough food and toilet paper
and ammo and all these different things
so that you were ready for this whereas
people that were just concentrating on
day to day life didn't act didn't think
it's probably got kaalia balance in my
tween I mean is it reasonable for
everybody to have five years of food at
their house I don't think so I mean
that's basically military MREs and I
hope you enjoy taking a shit every two
weeks you know those things man
you will shit the clay man those
Mountain ops oh my god the last time I
ate Mountain ops when I went on a hunt
the farts that were coming out of my
body were some of the worst smells I I
didn't know I could produce and I I know
that they taste good they do taste good
and I know it's it's good to have you
know freeze-dried or dehydrated meals
you can cut it's very lightweight you
can pack them out really easy but Jesus
Christ what is happening internally I
sent I lived ninety days one time purely
on military MREs which stands for meal
ready-to-eat it was the initial invasion
of Iraq and that's all we had and so
there's a couple versions but there's a
cold-weather version and when I was in
at least he came in a white bag it was
for alpine cold-weather operations so it
had more calories and it had more tasty
things in there and we had our hands on
those but you know there's some good
ones like beef stew was my favorite I
think it was meal number eight and then
there's some terrible ones we called it
like five fingers of death it was hot
dogs and I don't know when or where
these fucking things were made but I
mean your bulletproof vest could barely
contain it if you were to thread this is
like eating a cylinder of titanium they
were disgusting and I don't I can't
recognize the meat source oh and at
first it was like okay I could eat the
main meal and then my appetite started
going and then this oh there's crackers
that come with it so I could eat those
because they
come with like jelly or peanut butter or
jam and there's actually a full economic
system inside of the military trading
that shit like you can stock up on
peanut butters and get strawberry jam oh
and there's some pound cakes that are
good the Lemon Poppyseed pound cake is
the best I don't care what anybody says
and the longer it went the less I could
eat and by the end of it I was just
eating skittles it was all I could do
and then we get this care package right
before we left Baghdad and it was like a
pallet of Girl Scout cookies and like
the entire unit I mean not everybody did
this but basically we were ineffective
for 48 hours because guys stomachs were
so destroyed from eating all of the MREs
and you'd see guys just take a sleeve of
Thin Mints and just bang and then it
came a coffee - oh God and so guys
you're just laying on there because we
were staying you know you'd think it's
like this high-speed sexy stuff we were
staying in cots in a totally gunned out
airplane hangar at Baghdad and there was
pigeons flying over us and we would
shoot him and they would spiral into
people's beds and we would celebrate and
guys are just laying in their racks just
like just shut down
mario's well fuck you oh god they're so
calorically dense like you need to be
drinking like eight gallons of water a
day and you're still gonna be like I
haven't gone to the bathroom in four
days I think I might die yeah I always
wondered I mean I I was eating a can of
sardines the other day I was like how
can you keep fish fresh and a fucking
tin is the idea that there's no air in
there is that all it is
don't they cook it and put it in there
right at the end of the cooking process
I guess but then like how is it in there
what the fuck's going on how is it okay
I don't know weird but sardines are
disgusting so I don't like them see
that's in my circle of concern I like
I'm sorry Dean's and oysters do you have
smoked oysters in a can no it sounds
delicious I like them the latest
addition to my diet is I started buying
diced clams and adding it to clam
chowder
that's about as controversial as I get
with my I have a straight meat and
potatoes guy one of those fellas I am
NOT exploratory with my food at all well
you eat a lot of wild game right well
yeah but that
that's awesome I have a lot of elk and a
lot of deer um but I don't you know I
don't need to go into the world some
people that's exploratory well I've
stuck with it now for a few years I
would say I'll put like this if I go to
a foreign country I'm looking for
something that I recognize I'm not
interested in sampling the local cuisine
I've had some bad experiences is that
why you're gun-shy like if we go to
Thailand Thailand so I've been to
Thailand a bunch and I love their cow
pot guide the chicken fried rice the
shit out of that that's it but I'm not
touching a balut yabba loots ruff we
served that on fear factor
my Filipino friends were laughing they
were like dude that's a delicacy like we
love balut
eat that little that's disgusting so we
were there
apparently it's delicious as a new guy
and they're like here's balut so you
will eat these because we're hazing you
and it's like awesome Oh Hayes you they
give you a delicacy I don't think a
fermented rotten egg change your mindset
is it fermented balut Menton oh yeah
they bury those things is that the same
thing because there's the
hundred-year-old egg there's 100 year
old but these are definitely buried
fermented like when you're peeling off
egg it's purple Oh see that's weird
because the balut that we serve was not
like that
maybe there's different ways to serve it
because the the purple stuff is that's
that hundred-year-old egg stuff maybe
there's like fermented balut and then
regular balut I just started throwing up
before I put it in my mouth just
disgusting and of course we weren't
sober either so the eggs that we serve
people on fear factor we were serving
them a hundred-year-old egg that was the
other thing that we served they're not
really a hundred-year-old egg it's just
an expression but it's a that is the I
think the idea is that they cook them
and then they bury them in the ground or
something like that and the gelatinous
outer area that used to be the white of
the egg is like this black jelly
it's like black jelly yeah so we should
put that in our mouth that sounds great
but see Chinese people love it they
think there's a lot of people that
actually enjoy it apparently the most
disgusting food this is coming from the
late great Anthony Bourdain that he ever
tried was fermented shark from Iceland
he said there are no words to describe
the the putrid disgusting smell and
taste he's like he couldn't
imagine that people would ever acquire a
taste for this and it's a fermented
shark and he said I don't remember what
the history of eating those things are I
mean it must have come from some time of
great famine or this is the the only
thing they had I've had shark before not
sure not fermented Mako I enjoyed shark
when I was wrong actually yeah what the
fuck happened we're not supposed to kill
sharks like now if you catch a shark
people think you're a monster so it's
like shooting a baby deer I'm not a fan
of the man in the gray wetsuit I've
spent enough time in the water I don't I
just know let's stay away I'm not a fan
either and I watched that movie the
other day with my family the what is the
the new 47 meters down or something like
that well I don't know that there's the
sharknado there's the that one's
ridiculous yeah this one is more like a
shark this one less ridiculous yes it's
a bunch of hot girls in bikinis that
cave diving and they find blind sharks
that live deep in the caves and then
they they get a spoiler or people get
fucked up here's an idea
don't go cave diving let's just stay out
of the water diving yeah I'm not a fan
of the water anymore at all anymore
were you ever a fan I mean I grew up in
Santa Cruz that we surfer doing junior
lifeguards I mean I surfed I wouldn't
call myself a surfer I could like stand
up and fall over on a board right it's
like have you gone fishing twice you're
not a fisherman no I'm but I grew up on
the beach and my summers and did junior
lifeguards and then you go get tortured
with water and spend an immense amount
of time in water and like I'm completely
good I don't want to ever go in here
voluntarily again good call yeah yeah
waters weird it's like I enjoy the fact
that it's real I like the fact that
there's like there's an alternative
world that's connected to us
I have snorkeled several times and I
enjoyed it for brief periods of time but
I'm always very relieved when I get out
of the water deep as the water ice
imagine snorkeling in like three to four
feet of water now where is probably 12
12 15 not that not that deep though I
was with Dudley and yeah yeah we're in
lanai we went snorkeling it's fun
it's kind of cool you see some turtles
and shit and some fish
not that many fish that's what was kind
of weird you know you like you would
think cause a whole world down there I'm
sorry yeah but why would the fuck they
would be by the people why would these
fish be hanging around where all these
assholes are peeing and I get it you
know yeah
the ocean is another one - you got to
surrender a little bit yeah I mean you
got no control over that sucker and you
can try to control it I've watched
people try to control and they just get
they get crushed yet if you see
something you know see something
underwater like you're basically it's
mercy it's like if you were an alligator
it gets better than that yeah so imagine
doing dives in water that has you know
the phosphorescence so when things move
through it it it'll light those yeah and
you're always with the dive buddy and
we'll do a lot of closed-circuit diving
so you're rebreathing oxygen you purge
your body of the what is it carbon
dioxide and you have a chemical scrubber
that scrubs out the carbon dioxide so it
goes in one side and it goes through
this loop so there's no bubbles you can
stand to water for a long time I think
you talked to Trevor about it but yeah
this stuff he was diving so you're what
the dive buddy and will do or they will
still do now like long distance
underwater navigation and you would
think there's some high speed computer
you have a depth gauge a stopwatch and a
compass and that's your entertainment
for the sometimes four hours that you're
underwater mind you only one of the two
people is holding this the other person
has zero entertainment for that time
period because you're just along for the
ride as the buddy so you're holding on
to their elbow to pinch them to make
sure you're still there but most of the
time but if you're the driver the person
navigating your buddy will stay on one
side of you and you know that you're
there cuz they'll check in every once in
a while and squeeze your elbow and I had
on more than one occasion diving in the
dark weird noises under there because
with a rebreather you know you don't
have the as you exhale so you can hear
the crackling and the eating and boats
come over your head it sounds like
you're gonna die at any time and perhaps
I have an overactive imagination I'm
just you know I've watched jaws too many
times so I'm sitting there trying to
navigate and then just thinking like oh
my God we're gonna get eaten by a shark
but my buddy is on my right-hand side
and you'll get slammed by something on
your left and you'll just see it go off
in the phosphorescence the question is
do you look or do you just keep your
head down and keep going what do you do
I just kept my head down and kept going
because you can't do anything I couldn't
do anything and if I had looked and I've
hit him in a shark I would have probably
killed myself just doing a nuclear
submarine porpoise hanging out of the
water so what do you think it was
probably a sea lion or a dolphin or it
could even damn near been a shark but it
happened to me on more than one occasion
and more and two more guys than you
would think you're just under there and
something bumps into you and you know
it's on the opposite side of your die
buddy it is not an awesome experience
how many guys get lost two sharks doing
that I don't know of anybody in the SEAL
community who has been lost due to a
shark attack that's amazing it's not
amazing well I mean the stats are on
your side yeah but still you would think
one guy like I know guys who've been
struck by lightning what your odds are
lightning strike versus shark I bet it's
way higher lightning strike if you're
outside yeah then if you're in the water
I know of them cancelling dives because
there was shark activity in the area but
I don't know of a single guy has
actually had an interaction where they
got bit wow that's pretty impressive
I would imagine there would be a few
losses over the years well if you think
well but most of the diving I did down
in San Diego you're not diving out in
the ocean you're diving in the bay like
you're going in shallower water you're
in and around the piers and I'm not an
expert on sharks bite by any stretch so
I don't know I don't think that's
necessarily their natural habitat I
think you might be farther out there out
right off of Malibu
they didn't realize how many of them
there were so people start flying drones
so they fly these drones like a couple
hundred yards off of people surfing and
there's fucking great whites is swimming
around you like watch the ocean will
fuck you up you have no control over
that
it's an again so in your in that moment
you're like I remember I had these
conversations myself just get slammed
and you see it out of the corner I it's
like yeah that didn't happen let's just
keep going for hours that's about the
longest I've been underwater yeah
exhaustion dive on a trigger in those
rebreathers some people have episodes of
epilepsy or of seizures when they these
oxygen toxicity is an issue and then
there be
cuz of the chemical scrubber of course
the chemical scrubber reacts negatively
to water so we should put it in a
container and then submerse it in the
water under pressure it's held on by a
hand tighten screwed oh god damn and you
crazy that it works it works really
really well until it doesn't and you see
people do the nuclear submarine stop
ripping their mouthpiece out because
it's called a caustic cocktail there's a
there's one-way valves in each of the
hoses so the loop has to be correct and
continuous so when you exhale it needs
to go into the scrubber and then when
you inhale it needs to come because if
there was no one-way valve you know what
I mean the oxygen would flow through the
system without being able to recharge
because if you inhale enough it'll give
you another hit of pure oxygen and it
can continue that cycle mm-hmm but so if
the cannister will start to fill up and
you can hear it too
like every after every dive you will
dump you maintain your own gear but
you'll dump out the cannister and the
chemical it'll turn at least the stuff
that I was using when I was in it'll
turn like a purplish color as it's the
effectiveness is starting to reduce you
can actually do more than one die with
it as you open the container up and you
make sure that the chemicals are okay
and then you tilt it over and on every
dive water starts coming out of it and
you can hear it on dives too it'll start
gurgling a little bit like as you're
inhaling oh no oh it's and again you can
spend time worrying about that or you
can just drive on and deal with if it
becomes an issue you can deal with it at
that time what do you do if you've got
an issue you have to get to the surface
it's so when what you do you got to get
fresh air you need to wash your mouth
out you need to get to a higher level of
care so if you are two hours into a four
hour swim yep with a rebreather and you
pop your head off the surface and you're
gagging what do you do there's gonna be
a there's always a safety ratio in those
training evolutions so you're gonna have
a diving supervisor well everybody's
underwater you're gonna have a pretty
robust network of people that are up
there for safety so the dive has been
planned you've probably already
coordinated with you know where the
nearest chamber is you've notified the
chamber that you're diving so if you
have a pressure related issue you know
where the nearest hospital is you have a
prime
secondary and tertiary medical plan and
I think I forget what it was but I think
it was you know one dive soup per maybe
four dive pairs and you dive with buoys
in training so there's boats that are up
top that are not only are they there to
help in case an emergency would come up
but you know boats don't see those
little buoys because it's just a little
orange buoy traveling along and at
nighttime you put you know chem light
glow sticks on them which nobody is
looking for so boats are up there to
basically push other boats away so
you'll get up there and literally just
you know you wave your hand and the boat
will come over and they're gonna get you
to a corpsman which is you know the
medical personnel on the Navy side of
the house and they're gonna start
treating you right there but it the
chemical the caustic cocktails are
gnarly I mean guys will just come up
projectile vomiting it doesn't happen
that often but every dive you dip you
dip that thing over and the water starts
coming out of it oh yeah Jesus Christ
it's just crazy that it does work that
you can breathe underwater with no
bubbles it works well works really well
yeah most the time you're limited by the
amount of oxygen in the cylinder not the
effectiveness of the chemical scrubber
itself how long is it supposed to last
for who
I do not know off the top of my head but
you an exhaustion dive on a dragger for
me you could go somewhere between three
and a half to four hours Wow which is
just it's mind-numbing that's crazy you
could just breathe into that thing
mmm it's super quiet the only noise that
it makes is when you have a demand valve
that kicks in it'll give you a hit of
that pure oxygen that's what it sounds
like and then other that's pure that's
what I'm saying you can hear so much
more you hear all the crustaceans down
there and all the clicking you can sneak
up on animals because you're not making
as much noise it seems like it would be
a good thing to wear if you were scuba
diving or you were spearfishing rather
it's limited by the depth because you
take oxygen down to depth that's we're
gonna get the o2 toxicity issues so on
those dives we're talking 20 feet to the
surface as well that's it oh won't work
no unless there's awesome spearfishing
in tiny feet I heard spearfishing is the
shit everybody that's done it says it's
amazing it's like hunting underwater
I'll never be able to tell you because
I'm not gonna fall in the fucking water
well it's understandable you did your
time dude I didn't know I was listening
to your podcast I didn't know that you
were involved in the rescue of Jessica
Lynch that was the second target that we
hit and the first invasion of my rack
that's crazy it was an odd series of
events the you know we went over there I
had just finished the selection process
for the East Coast command and they
actually there are will be the best way
to describe it there are multiple
squadrons in side of that command all
tasked with they're all have the same
skill set but you need multiple so one
can be on deployment while another one
is training and the other one is resting
you want to get into a you know a
rotation cycle so at the end of
selection an X number of people get
partitioned off to each one of those and
it takes time to get up to speed because
the selection tactics and the way that
you train or they're good but you get
better as you were working with the guys
with more experience specifically the
real-world experience and so they pulled
us out of selection about a month early
and sent us over to augment the karzai
detail in Afghanistan at the very tail
end I mean nothing happened we basically
you know you're a deterrent at that
point and it's one of the worst missions
because you can't it's very reactive
security detail stuff you can't really
do anything until somebody else does
something so you're already behind the
power curve it's my least favorite
mission set I think but we came back
from that and then the Intel started
kicking off for Iraq and they sent us
over to Saudi Arabia and we were there
for probably somewhere between 7 to 10
days that's where I watched Bush give
the speech no sonam Hussein has I think
it was 24 hours to comply or turn
himself in whatever it was and we had
already taken a look at we knew before
going over there that there were two or
three objectives that we were gonna look
at so we had already basically planned
missions that we were gonna do while we
were in Virginia Beach
we were planning for stuff in Iraq so we
continued the planning in Saudi Arabia
and the number one the first target we
hit was the number one chembio target in
Iraq so to do that you have to get all
your shit on this it's called MOPP gear
mission oriented protective posture it's
like a chemical chem bio suit gas mask
which compounds a lot of stuff you have
all your normal shit on anyway like
there's guys carrying quickie saws in a
hazmat suit with a gas mask on breathing
through a blower on their back
overworking the blower and it's amazing
how close to suffocation I've actually
come inside of those gas mass it's the
worst feeling ever like that you're
sucking so hard for air that the mask is
like sting cuz you're not supposed to be
physically exerting yourself while
you're wearing that thing there's a it's
just it's harder it's me like putting
them because there's a canister on the
side how much weight are you carrying
around in those days it was probably
bodyweight plus eighty two hundred
pounds Jesus Christ and that was about
average and it trimmed down after that
because the actual amount of real world
experience at that time was low and it
drastically increased so you'd be like
you know I think I need this pocket and
then you wouldn't need it for a month I
need to get rid of this goddamn pocket
because it carries sweat and like
backpack hunters
same kind of thing oh yeah the gear that
I wore towards the end was substantially
different than the gear that I ward
towards the beginning I trimmed I mean I
think I probably had ten magazines on me
like that first target I think the last
appointment I did I would carry four
four one in the gun and no pistol so
things changed over time but this just
for weight just for weight and for
ability to move cuz then I would need
less food and I would need less water
and I'd actually be mobile but on this
target so is a four hour helicopter
right in we're sitting there we have all
of our MOPP gear on but not our masks
and we're doing a mid-air refuel on a
c-130 so you had a forty seven double
you know the big double my propeller so
it'd be rotor blades on top of
helicopter they're hooked up next to a
c-130 in-flight refueling missile goes
underneath the c-130 is like see you
boys later comes out and it like the
c-130 bailed when the missile flew fuck
yeah I don't blame him for that either
they're literally a flying fuel tank but
I think they had gotten enough gas and
we had to hit the tanker on the way back
as well but so you're just sitting there
waiting for three and a half you know
three and three-quarter hours and about
ten minutes out you start getting your
gas masks and stuff long you get a stuff
that drape and you know night-vision
goggles have you ever looked through a
pair yeah
your field of view sucks it's terrible
it's weird which is why you notice when
people are actually using them they will
all constantly have movement
in their head because they're increasing
their field of view and up and down and
that's when you can orient them to a
good offset to your eye
now imagine putting a gas mask in
between your eye and the lens of the
night vision goggle oh Jesus
so you're taking already a limited field
of view and putting it into a soda straw
so in mind you this is the first combat
target I've ever been on so and you're
18 oh no this one T - no I went through
how old are you me 42 I was in my at the
time this was in 2003 I was 25 okay 25
but you you enlisted when you were
really young seventeen junior in high
school I signed the paperwork when I was
in junior in high school least I didn't
you still gotta graduate and then you
know continue on but and I was in like
the third or fourth forty-seven that
went in so you finally get all your
stuff on you know and you have a blower
on your back so there's ways that you
can help the canister if you just have
the canister on your mask it's a lot
like breathing through a few straws
shoved in your mouth if you maintain a
loan of heart rate and you're totally
chill you're fine
but as your heart rate goes up and your
demand you know for oxygen goes up
you're really limited so they have you
know you can put them on your back it's
a blower it's a battery-powered blower
that will basically push air into the
mask and it gives you I would say more
buffer space it's like almost like a
positive pressure and if you're not
doing much it's actually really nice
it's just GM and aired in your face and
it works well unless you put your weapon
sling over the top of that tube which is
exactly what I did Oh awesome
oh is great is great first experience I
lost my nods on my first target ever I
went back and got him but it was a
fucking shit show with nods night-vision
goggles so things that you need to see
at night and we'll get in trouble for if
you lose it was terrible so we come in
number one chembio target in Iraq and we
had looked at it from the perspective of
like air conditioning specialists and
you know from architects to what we
could encounter on the ground potential
threat satellite imagery of historical
stuff and we get there and by the time I
even got on the ground there was already
a firefight going on the helicopter that
I was in had 27 rounds come through the
helicopter not a single person was hurt
like guys are like reaching up to like
scratch their ass and
around would come through and dismiss
everybody Jesus Christ
I take that back the door gunner
standing next to me got shot right in
the head then about a minute out that
was my first exposure to combat just
over in helicopter lands and you go and
by the time I got to the front door of
that structure I was probably as close
to be an unconscious due to asphyxiation
as I often M doing getting choked out
like the world it's just coming down and
it instantaneously we could tell that it
was a agricultural school like the
intelligence was so horribly and
incredibly off when it came to that so I
just ripped my mask off at some point
because I would have rather died from
whatever horrendous disease could have
been in there then suffocated and then
you know we cleared through it and I
knocked my night-vision goggles off with
a sledgehammer I had to go back it was a
shit show so we get back from that the
next morning we wake up and I remember
having a cup of coffee with a buddy of
mine I was like hey man I don't think
we're gonna get out of this if things
keep going like they did last night and
shortly after that a few days after that
we got word that Jessica had been
captured so we forward staged and went
up to Nigeria and the information that
we had going into the hospital is that
it was a Fed I mean hotbed like 50 to
500 people was the expected amount of
resistance that we could have and we can
fit 27 people in helicopter so that's
what we launched with in the back of our
head and fortunately we didn't meet any
resistance inside of the structure and
it actually was kind of business as
usual looking back like there was
nothing exciting about that target
whatsoever people in the modern day if
they were to action that target now with
the experience that they have that you
wouldn't even register on the radar
scope the amount the little or the
little amount of resistance that was
encountered outside it just would be
another day at the office but there was
a public story of that and then there
was a lot of dispute about whether or
not that was accurate there was a like I
remember she actually cleared up a lot
of it she well she was not responsible
for a lot of the things that were said
because she was deep into the
repatriation process into I mean hurt
she's fucked up
this day when I met sat down I probably
get to sit across the table she hadn't
ever sat down and talked to somebody who
was there it was when did you meet her I
went out again yeah yeah it was one of
the earlier episodes where she so she
told her side of the story I told my
side of the story and we were able to
like my gaps and we sat across the table
just like this and she still wears a
brace she came and gave me a huge hug I
mean I didn't know what to expect what
happened to her physically um man I
don't have the exact details but from my
understanding the vast majority of her
injuries came from when her Humvee
wrecked I do not believe she was buckled
or strapped in so she got just pounded
and she was not treated well you know
it's guys are gonna get the same I mean
bottom line you're gonna get raped if
you're a male or a female really oh yeah
for sure and you captured oh yeah you're
going to for sure if you're a male or
female if you're a male or a female
you're you're not gonna have a good go
of it for sure and again I'm not an
exact expert on what happened
specifically with her but from my
understanding she experienced that as
well as all the other medical issues but
when we she was in bad shape when we
pulled her out of the hospital for sure
but then so and I remember there were
two people with us that were carrying
video cameras and there was a little bit
of footage that was taken from that like
when she was in the hospital bed in the
hospital
and a lot of the rest of it was from the
cameras on the helicopters and some you
know the sensors overhead but the
narrative from that not a word was said
by anybody that was there executing that
objective or from her and I think my
hypothesis is you know we were a month
into that war a lot of that war was
based on we need to go rid this country
in this dictator of their WMDs we hadn't
found any from PR perspective wise it
wasn't probably going as well as they
wanted it to do and they wanted to have
a PR victory but the stuff that was said
the stuff that made the news all this
stuff that got blown out of proportion
none of that came from the people that
were actually there it came from all
those layers
what was blown up cuz I'm trying to
remember I remember some of the first
reports they were saying that she was
gonna be the first female Medal of Honor
recipient that she had fought until she
had her you know she expended her last
round and it was finally overtaking and
he talked to her and she or she never
even loaded her weapon or weapons and
she never said that she fought you know
I mean I remember people talking about
she never said any of that what do you
think was doing that was that the
government's PR I think people are often
in a rush to talk in an educated manner
about things they know nothing about hmm
I mean it takes time to to understand
the details of what happened she was not
in a headspace to give a debrief you
know she was literally being flown
probably to Germany for her first round
of countless surgeries and she's gonna
need to spend time with a therapist and
a counselor I would assume she would
obviously can't speak for but they're
gonna you know they're gonna want to do
a robust medical treatment and that's
really not the time to dive into the
details of her exact actions and we left
the next morning and flew into Baghdad
like three days later like it was just
another day on the job and you were off
and running you just had it was cool
because it was the first rescue of u.s.
POWs since what war - and so the rescue
of her was she was rescued from the
hospital correct and so they had abused
her and then taken her to a hospital I
get a little granny on the details of
what happened in between the wreck and
only picked her up because there are
conflicting narratives there are there
are I don't know what the correct word
would be stories or there are reports
that they attempted to put her into an
ambulance and bring her back to US
forces but at that same time the
Fedayeen were using ambulances as
basically military fighting vehicles so
they said that when they tried to do
that the ambulance was shot at which
makes sense if there was a a trend of
people using an ambulance as a military
vehicle that would make sense and they
would get turned around so they might
have tried to bring her back you know
that hospital was being used as a
fitting staging point because they're I
mean they're not dumb people they
understand we're not gonna likely bomb
hospitals or religious structures so use
them to their military advantage Wow
Wow and this is your second your second
real yep
Wow crazy it's great that mean that
story was a giant story yep in in the
media about the war and people trying to
sort out what was true versus what was
the you know the publicity narrative I
would say on average taking 90% of what
you hear off the top
90% yeah you know it's interesting for
me when I was listening to you talk with
Trevor people are super fascinated by
war in combat and I wish they wouldn't
be because it's not fascinating it's
actually really simple
most often you're not out there
reinventing the wheel you're doing the
simplest of tactics that you can because
they're almost always effective you can
build complexity but you have to have a
mastery of the symbol first it's not a
crazy unique experience it doesn't give
you any insight or special powers I mean
it doesn't make you unique it's just a
it's a bizarre occupation but it's not
to me at least it's not fascinating and
I wish other people were less fascinated
by it because then they would be less
likely to be taken advantage of by
people who are snake oil salesmen how so
I mean your stolen valor yeah and the
shit that people try to pull yeah you
know when it goes that route and it's
enticing in a wartime environment you
know the vast majority the military
doesn't see combat I think 15 percent or
less actually engages in direct combat
but if you go to a bar and it's like huh
man there's a lot of combat vets in here
like every single person in the military
is telling war stories mmm you know and
it's and and that is to a degree I would
say harmless unless you start attaching
your identity to that and you start
leveraging people's fascination you know
Ellie this oh look at this person look
what he did let's have a relationship
with that person let's give this person
this and then they start you know to me
the biggest threat to the veteran
community is Veterans themself getting
so tied to an occupation instead of
trying to figure out who they are they
get stuck in the rear view mirror
looking at what they used to do you know
because it is what you used to do it's
not who you are and people who can't
disconnect those two things I think that
they
struggle and you see guys looking for
handouts and then you know the more that
you can create this dossier of who you
are it's amazing I mean it opens doors
it really does
my background is 100% that two-sided
knife it'll open doors and some of them
I'm not qualified to walk through but
they will open it because what they
think were fascinated by what I used to
do well it's fascinating for people
because they're never gonna experience
it that's good yeah I shouldn't I hope
they never have to right but it's still
I mean you understand why that would be
compelling to DES least try to
understand it or process it in your mind
for someone who isn't going to
experience it like for me
yeah like when me when I talk to you or
if I talk to Jocko or anybody that's had
a lot of experience I I am fascinated
and I can understand why it would be
something that you would want people to
not be fascinated by but for someone on
the outside looking in like I wanted I
want to know what that's because the
only experience that we can sort of
absorb is film like we could either
watch Restrepo or watch you know talking
about this last time I was on the only
thing that and again strip 90 percent
off the top yeah I'm sure
they're terrible yeah it's yeah and but
at the same time other than a pure
documentary films are there to make
money they're there to put butts in
seats so I get it they're in this tug of
war between entertainment and
authenticity and I have a limited
exposure to working in the entertainment
world on the technical advising house
and if there is a struggle often between
entertainment and authenticity
authenticity loses because it's not that
fascinating it's it's slower than people
think it's quieter than people think
it's not the case with every single
subject that they tried to capture in
film probably yeah I mean it's basically
everything yeah from romance to fighting
to everything it's like it's a bullshit
version of it I mean I think that's one
of the reasons why so many people have
these weird expectations of
relationships they watch too many Ryan
Reynolds movies and they really think
that this is how it's supposed to go
down the notebook these movies are
really essentially what people use as a
guideline for what the ideal
relationship is
but instead of a really good
relationship that you're aware of that
actually exists yeah I think people
should use caution on anything that they
see on a screen of any size whether it's
from iPhone IMAX you just ripped 90% off
the top well especially a screen where
people are literally pretending yes
either pretending to be at war I mean
was fucking a camera guys there and
actors in any cut good job okay we're
gonna have to touch up the blood get him
more blood let's spray some sweat on
them
the other talking to the VFX dude okay
we'll get that uh you know where you get
that explosion in the background give me
an aircraft carrier go on this I mean
how could you ever make that authentic
is that what the what I think Trevor now
we're talking about Saving Private Ryan
and the storm in the beach at Normandy
yeah probably the only scene ever in a
movie that accurately represents what it
must have been like at that time some of
those some of them get it right like
snippets I actually think we talked
about this last time to briefly Black
Hawk Down gets a little bit right you
can get an understanding of like the
confusion the sense of losing utter and
complete control not knowing what to do
next having limited information having
to make decisions on limited information
having to make decisions where somebody
might live and others might die like you
don't get snippets of that but I don't
think there's any one film or TV show
that captures it really accurately well
it's weird to me too when there's
someone who you know like Marky Mark
like here's Marky Mark he's in the movie
it's Mark Wahlberg whitey boy but it's
Mark Albert it's not marcus luttrell
yeah like I know Marcus does not Marcus
yep that's Mark Wahlberg yeah but he's
playing Marcus so it's like wow this is
weird that's weird that's inescapably
weird when there's a person who's like a
super famous guy like Mark Wahlberg
who's been in a fuckin million movies
but he's playing someone else but you
know it's Mark Wahlberg so there's this
weird sort of thing you're supposed to
do you know this is suspension of
disbelief that you have in every movie
but look it's gotta be the weirdest
fucking thing ever to see someone who
you know play you in a movie I think I
would just skip that whole process and
be like hey let me know how it goes just
don't even wanna give a beat for me I'd
like first
nobody's ever writing a book or move
about my life because again
exceptionally average military career
wise if they did I would say you go have
fun and all that you know what I think
of it I wouldn't want to be involved in
that at all yeah so yeah I think that's
a good call the whole the famous guy
playing someone else thing is got to be
so fucking strange if you're that person
if you have any guess achill Lynch leads
if they did a Jessica Lynch story and
Scarlett Johansson played Jessica Lynch
play what she'd probably what in the
fuck is going on that's the it'd be a
mindfuck for sure yeah yeah well that
Scarlett Johansson that's on me what
bitch I never said that that is not how
it went down what the fuck did they do
to my story authenticity versus
entertainment yeah I mean that's just
how it goes in every movie yeah it's
just Foxcatcher it's a perfect example
of that I've used that example many many
times it's not about Mark and David
Schultz documentary or film it's with
Steve Carell and who plays that handsome
fella
Channing Tatum another one of them super
handsome fellow he's Mark Schultz who
was you know one of the greatest
wrestlers America ever produced and his
brother Dave Schultz is another equally
impressive wrestler it's just top of the
food chain world champion wrestlers and
the movie just distorted everything
that's twisted up everything about their
career and and did they even need to
know here's the one example that I
always use that I'm sorry if you've
heard this before but the fucking end of
the film Mark Schultz in the movie has a
UFC fight and in the real world he had a
UFC fight against Big Daddy Goodrich Big
Daddy Goodrich is a pioneer of MMA of a
famous fighter in the world of fighting
I mean he's he's a legend right and Mark
Schultz mounted him and beat his ass
he's just a top of the food chain
Olympic gold medalist wrestler just took
him down at will just what you would
expect yeah and never a fought again
because you had a wrestling contract he
was coaching I believe it Brigham Young
and they didn't
- doing this back in the early days the
fc2 was bare-knuckle the whole deal
but in the movie fights a Russian guy
like why why do you have him fight a
Russian guy when he fought Big Daddy
Goodrich I mean it's Gary Goodridge is a
famous fighter who makes that call some
fucking asshole
because in the world you know I'm
watching it I'm like that's not who he
fought why did you change it why did you
change him when you could have just had
a guy play Big Daddy Goodrich yeah and
then have been like oh that's the guy
playing Big Daddy Goodrich okay at least
they're not fucking me but when I see
this Russian guy stand there and then
Mark Schultz get to the cage to fight
this Russian my way what are you doing
why'd you do that why don't you change
history did it ruin the movie for you
everything ruin the movie for me okay so
many who's ruined before then but you
stuck at it well Steve Carell was
excellent and and Channing Tatum was
excellent too they were it was good
acting in the movie but I knew that a
lot of what they were portraying was not
accurate you know they're making it look
like Mark Schultz was like down on his
luck and not doing well as a wrestler he
was dominating he was a fucking stud and
then at the end of it just there's so
much that they just took so much licence
for entertainment to twist up this real
time of real world event it's a real
thing that happened I mean that that guy
the the fuck was his name
DuPont did shoot Dave Schultz he really
did shoot him and murder me really was a
fucking crazy man and Steve Carell did a
great job of playing that guy but they
did so much Hollywood fuckery - a real
story and that sucks because if people
like if I watch that I wouldn't know the
backstory yeah I would assume that that
was to be an accurate portrayal of the
history of it yes and it would change
the course of at least what I thought
about it yes there was a lot of weird
stuff to him they made it look like they
were doing coke and they insinuated some
freaky sexual stuff was like there's a
lot of weird why doing this but it's
just this is just Hollywood man this is
just what producers do you know they
think they know better and they want to
make something exciting and so they fuck
with reality to turn it into a based on
an historical event or
it's done a real-world story how you
just described how you feel about those
type of movies is exactly how I feel
about them just a different genre yeah
oh I'm sure I mean but I but even more
insane right because it's it's war which
is in the highest stakes that anybody
can I mean when you come to if you if
you're involved in any very intense
difficult encounter I think war is the
highest stakes the highest level of all
those things in terms of time and the
time it takes to achieve the end state
for sure no and also the results like
what what what is happening well it's
people trying to kill other people
they're trying to kill you you're trying
to kill them
you're trying to achieve a result and
then the consequences of failure are
devastating in a drastic yeah but you
know it allows you you can take those
experience and do amazing positive
things with them and Jocko is an example
that I went to with that not everything
that happens in the military applies to
the civilian world you just can't take a
lot of the things that the military does
and apply them but some of the things
you can do are the leadership lessons
which shaka does I mean he's a freaking
amazing at it at taking those lessons
and applying them and talking about them
in manners that people can adapt them
hmm but not all the experiences are that
way but we should I think because people
are fascinated with him take what can
improve society and so we don't have to
relearn the lessons because you know I
can't speak for Jocko obviously but the
things that he learned and he talked
about in his books or continues to talk
about those were taught to all of us
instead of military and then somebody
taught the person who taught us like
those have been passed along we need to
spread the word a little bit farther and
wider and that's what I'm saying it
opens some doors and we're qualified or
I'm qualified to go in that door but
other doors I'm not qualified to go into
hmm but if they're all open and you have
your choice you know you can get
yourself in trouble but I mean Jaco is
one he's an example that I point to all
the time if somebody who was taking
those lessons that people are fascinated
by and recaps elating them in terms that
they can apply in their
life yeah there's certain human beings
like him that are their fuel like you
you can go to him and it'll change your
state like you could go to Jacko's
Instagram page and watch one of those
videos and it will enact a physical
change and your state and it'll go
fucking I'm going to the gym and you
literally will go do something
I'm getting my shit together I go the
opposite I see his watch I'm gonna get
the fuck out of my screen I want to
start a hashtag like up at a reasonable
hour I just want to fuck with it
predict a week I was I would've like
wake up at 4:20 and like hashtag up
before jaakko people got pissed and they
didn't realize they know each other like
I want to write a book instead of
extreme ownership it's like extremely
limited the ownership there's no bad
leaders only bad teams would be chapter
wise just go the other direction
no bad audience there's only bad
comedians yeah yeah I think Jocko is
it's interesting that people would get
mad at you because he does have this
profound effect on people know they're
willing to defend him you know like but
that's also you reading comments you
shouldn't be reading those I sometimes I
have idle time go to youtube watch a fun
video cats or something YouTube comments
will that's a is that the worst of the
worst yeah that's the bottom of the pit
because you got to realize who's leaving
YouTube comments you think Michael
Jordan is out there League leaving
YouTube comment no was LeBron James take
time between practices and leave YouTube
comments probably no no it's failures
for the most part it's people with time
or people that are at work and fucking
hate their job and they have free time
where they can just leave comments and
said this is the reason so many of them
are toxic super judgy I mean there's
reasonable comments I've actually like
there's some like technology is
something I'm very fascinated by and
I'll go to a technology YouTube page and
I'll watch like someone doing a review
of say like a new Linux laptop and then
I'll go into the comments there's no
negativity it's all nerds just talking
about different builds and you know and
what with the rating system
that and how they break this down and
restore that and it's different it's
like for them it's like this is just an
area of expertise and fascination yeah
and but when it comes to social things
oh boy that's when things get whacked
when it comes to political things that's
the grossest of the gross right anything
involved in Magga like justjust you're
not gonna learn anything from that you
can just gonna it gets a little Western
in the comments for sure oh it's just
mutations it's just yeah there's part of
that it's like these natural systems
like this too much comfort too much idle
time not enough stimulation not enough
adversity not enough accomplishment and
access to information yes in bitterness
and angry and a keyboard that works and
there they go off to the races just type
in fucking spew it out I'll read it
every now and then not mine but I'll
read other people's just to see what the
fuck people are up to and it's
disturbing a shit man it's crazy to me
is when I see people responding in the
comments to toxicity look what do you
think gonna change people's mind it
won't and what it actually does is let
people know that you are paying
attention so it increases the toxicity
in my experience from what I've seen
they're like oh oh hips it up he took
the time to read the comment and reply
game on yeah game on yes not good
well it's you're dealing with a specific
type of person the type of person that's
willing to leave a comment on a YouTube
page and it's just just overall I can't
say I've never left one you've left them
I have left a comment on a YouTube page
from time thanks in my earlier days when
you were young yeah I was like last year
mean stuff for know my policy on social
media is that I will not have refused to
be mean I won't name call and oftentimes
when people are being dicks I'll just
tell them thank you like you definitely
change the way that I think about this I
appreciate you taking the time and
effort for this well articulated thought
just right yeah yeah and then they and
then they twist into fuckin orbit that's
true that that definitely can happen and
that's the best time to walk away is
after the nice thank you for your you
know dickish calm so I'm twisting in the
the other time twist in the wind just
like so yeah it's just a weird thing man
I mean there's no way obviously to
engage one-on-one in a physical way with
all these people that are leaving
comments but if they did if you just sat
down with these people and talked about
it it would be a very different sort of
an engagement it's just such a poor way
to exchange information and I would say
into your face anyway they would change
the verbage that they used on face to
face conversation there's they're
emotionally heated again it a lot of
though I put back to people letting
their emotions drive their behavior and
the way they communicate and detaching
from that and being objective
which is easier to let the emotions do
it when you're angry at a keyboard to be
very hard to do face to face because
there's consequences to your emotional
there's consequences for sure but
there's also you realize what a cunt
you're being have you say something
really mean to someone even if you say
something mean to a small girl this
100-pound girl in front of you and you
say something mean and you see her so
that you feel bad unless you're a
sociopath you know and then you know
there's issues with that as well they're
out there they are out there man I know
a few they I went to I went through buds
with a sociopath the honor man of my
buds class is still in jail for chopping
people up and then disposing of their
bodies with his wife really yeah who are
they chopping up I don't know the people
but they would bring people back from I
know it happened at least once it might
have happened multiple times but they
would go to bars find a couple continued
the after party afterwards elicit and
argument some type of exchange they
killed I believe was a man and a woman
chopped him up he used to work at a
grocery store chain so he knew that they
the very cyclically
removing of the garbage cans there they
got you know 10 cent to the landfill
more often so he disposed of the body
bodies in multiple grocery store garbage
dumpsters and then they eventually got
caught because in the middle of the
night they broke into a Hooters - still
t-shirts
and cut cop by the cops and I believe it
was in her purse they found a Spyderco
knife with like hair and like basically
tissue still on the knife and I think
the woman's ID whoa yeah high-level
criminal they really thought this one
through and that's the only way they got
caught that's how they got caught and I
imagine if they didn't break into
Hooters yeah of course well first off
why the fuck are you breaking into
Hooters razor knife you dirty bitch
but again so this is you know sociopaths
out there and this is another thing that
I try to tell people often the best
people that I ever was around in my
entire life was in the seal community
and my mortal enemies and the worst
people I've ever seen on the face of the
earth was in the seal community as well
he was the honor man in my buds class
which if I look back it's they he had he
had passed more evolutions from a
statistical perspective than anybody
else in the class they weren't actually
viewing him through the lens of is this
person honorable or does he you know
they weren't grading him by his
integrity but it just goes to show you
that no selection process is perfect and
if you can't separate an individual from
an occupation or a uniform or a black
belt right if you think that because you
have a black belt that you're gonna be
an awesome person or because somebody is
a seal they're gonna be a great person
stand the fuck by mmm and it's not the
norm right I'm not I'm not I don't want
him as the anomaly to paint the norm but
it's important for people to remember
that those people are out there and
again they can leverage from my
background they can leverage the
fascination the curiosity people wanted
to give back any one of those common
questions that I get from people is you
know how can I thank people for their
service and well hey just say thank you
and then on my answer them is be is you
know provide them an opportunity if you
feel it's necessary but don't allow them
don't do anything for them and don't
give them any special treatment make
them earn it hmm
because then you can get a true look at
the individual as opposed to perhaps
just a shiny object that you were
focusing on before interesting so treat
them as an individual thank them but
treat them as an individual and judge
them based on the merits of the behavior
and they're worth 100 percent not merits
of their background if you have a job
you know you like hey I want to provide
opportunities for veterans no problem
provide the opportunities for veterans
but treat them
exactly like the person who is in the
cubicle next to them if it's in that
environment obviously and if you hold
the person that was a non-vet turn to a
certain standard you better hold the
veteran to the same standard don't let
them get away with anything because it
doesn't help them either right you know
it it helps everybody in the
organization if you set the standard and
make sure everybody holds it it's
insidious to an organization to set a
standard and well why is this guy
getting special treatment like SWAT dude
he was a seal gives a fuck it's just a
job title and if that person is
sociopathic or they are you know there's
a bell-curve there's a top 10% and the
and and the the top and the bottom 10%
if he's in that bottom 10% by holding
them to that standard you're gonna get
an objective viewpoint of that as
opposed to just being blinded by
whatever it may be it's interesting but
only you can say that or someone in your
position can say that it's very
difficult for someone who's a non
veteran to say anything remotely close
to that well I hope they listen then
because they don't need to say that they
just need to if they need to just live
that they need to structure their
organization with that framework
so it's objective not subjective there
isn't it's like people look at being a
seal it's not a Harry Potter wand I have
probably a familiarity and comfort with
weapons and tactics more than your
average person but if I'm being
completely honest about my old job I
could teach a monkey to do most of the
things that I did I'm serious I could
teach a monkey to do the things that we
did it's not we're not out there doing
nuclear physics you're out there doing
you know we find an individual how are
we gonna get there
okay let's figure out how we're gonna
get there we train to those standards we
get on target everything is based on
tactics and standard operating
procedures or TTP's tactics techniques
and procedures and everybody is trained
of those standards so you know what to
expect from somebody whether they're
from an East Coast team or a West Coast
team you can meet in the middle and we
all are taught to clear rooms the same
way and it's just it's it's not
complicated actually the blade of make
us less effective and efficient would be
to make it complicated the simpler that
you can make it the better you're going
to be mmm
that makes sense I mean it makes but
it's also the mind of a seal like the
type of person that can get through buds
that's that's complicated that's
complicated in just being able to
control your mind you know one of the
things that you said and one of the one
of times you talked about it was someone
who's able to keep their world small
when you talk yeah I'm I toss an
interesting way of looking at it
keep your world small like so people
that applies to what's happening right
now - hmm so what you're talking about
you know buds is a physical test you're
actually I would say having gone back as
an instructor which I learned much more
about the process applying the
curriculum as opposed to going through
it because as a student you're just like
ah I want this day to be over
as an instructor you can con us and you
also don't really know what you're gonna
do the next day as a student as an
instructor I can look at the entire
curriculum in the story arc of where you
start on day one and the product you're
gonna get at the end it's a physical
test but we're using the body to test
the mind we're stressing the body we're
gonna make you tired hungry hypothermic
we're gonna get you so exhaust to the
point that you're gonna hallucinate and
we're gonna take a look at how you
behave do you value we over me you know
one of the first things they do in buds
your explain the concept of this one
buddy and you don't get to go anywhere
farther than six feet away from another
human being for that six-month time
period that is the opposite of most
people's mentality and you can test it
early on you yell at them and you'll say
hey you got 30 seconds to go run up to
the ocean and get wet and in the first
few days they just take off and they
start running because they forgot about
their swim buddy they're me centric and
so you bring them back and you punish
them the individual that made that
choice and then also this one buddy you
know to reinforce that people there are
consequences to other people from your
behaviors and after about two weeks you
really can't separate people from their
swim buddies so it's a lesson and it's
at a beginning point where you can
instill this philosophy of we as greater
than me and it's one of the most
beautiful things I think from the seal
community if you talk to people or my
experience has been as is in talking to
people in their most dire moments where
things are getting the word
they're often more concerned about the
people to their left and right than they
are about himself
my biggest fear probably I know what it
was in the seal community but to this
day is that I am NOT gonna be there when
somebody needs me that was my biggest
fear in the seal community that I wasn't
gonna live up to this standard at the
people to the left and right
held at me and then they were gonna
suffer for it I was more concerned about
letting them down than myself getting
hurt or killed and that starts with that
ethos from seal training but it's not a
complicated course we're stressing the
body to stress the mind and if you look
at the people who make it through so
when I went back as an instructor as a
student when you're going through
training if somebody next to you quits
you never see them again like there's no
hey dude what the fuck are you doing
like they're just gone and you continue
on with your day because you just want
to graduate the program as an instructor
you can talk to those people and you can
ask really important questions my
favorite question is why you said you
this was your lifelong goal this is all
you've ever wanted to do you left
a d1 scholarship to come here because
you saw no for yourself no value in the
higher education and you wanted to come
to the seal community and you quit why
time and time and time again the answer
I would get from the students is they
got overwhelmed so they were doing the
opposite of keeping their world small
because there's two ways you can look at
Budds it's a hundred eighty days long I
think plus or minus one or two or you
could look at it as a sunrise and a
sunset 180 times so you could look at a
pie and go oh my god I have to eat this
whole thing or you can look at a slice
and eat the slice and not worry about
the rest of the slices and keep doing
that and doing that until the training
process is complete hell week is another
good example it starts Sunday in the
evening and ends Friday in the afternoon
and you get about two hours of sleep on
Wednesday that's it it's horrendous
to go through and it's pretty
entertaining as an instructor because
you can just totally fuck with the
students cuz they're off their rocker by
Tuesday afternoon but almost all of the
attrition occurs from Sunday night until
I'd say Tuesday morning and beyond that
you're probably gonna make it through
because you've invested so much but the
advice that I was given when I went
through was don't look at how weak as a
five-day pipeline just make it to your
next meal they have to
you every six hours so if I can stack
six hours on six hours and six hours and
just focus on getting to the next meal
it doesn't matter how much I'm in pain
doesn't matter how cold I am I can just
get to the next meal I'll get a reprieve
a mental reset and I can continue on
that's that in combination with some you
know the mental toughness is how you
approach and set your goals and then
resilience and my definition of
resilience would be the ability to get
bent and come back stronger than you
were before the way you do that is by
bending yourself as often as possible
which you do all the time by running
sprints or you know I mean you're doing
that stuff you're mentally tough because
of that and if you can apply that
resilience to approaching setting and
approaching your goals from digestible
perspectives you can accomplish in the
same amount so that's really what I mean
it's a physical test but we're just
testing the mind can the individual
ignore the big and focus on the small
can you do the step that you need to do
and not get overwhelmed regardless if
you're tired exhausted hungry cold I
mean that's really all it is mmm it's
not a complex training program there's
the ocean there's the beach there's some
telephone poles there's some boats and
then later on we introduce scuba gear
and towards the tail end of it you know
some demolition and pistol and rifle how
many days can you stay awake for where
it becomes dangerous to your health
yeah I don't know it's dangerous for
their health inhale weak what the
students probably don't realize is there
is a huge safety network for them you
don't see it as a student because you're
so just tasks saturated there are MDS
walking around all over the place
there's people constantly you know we're
checking the temperature of the water
will take core body temperatures on the
students we're keeping a very good eye
and we're buffering them because by
about Wednesday they're brain-dead I
don't know how long you can stay awake
without suffering some severe physical
consequence so they literally get two
hours of sleep in the whole week you
might get a little bit of break time you
know there's a it's actually on the wall
at the buds compound it pays to be a
winner and the inverse of that is
incredibly true it does not pay to be a
loser in the seal community and for
clarity loser is anything other than
first place and the community that I
came from
the podium has one platform not three so
if you win you might get 15 minutes off
while we're hammering the shit out of
the rest of the class so if you win a
task if you win a task I can hell week
you'll ask such as about beaucoup race
is a perfect one I'm Jamie can pull up a
picture its buds hell week boat crew
race and there'll be students running
with boats on their heads and people get
bald spots from it and we'll do races
like hey take that boat that's supposed
to be in the ocean and you're gonna run
with on your head as a crew of seven
people three people on each side and the
leader in the back and at the end of
four miles we'll be done with this the
winning boat crew will get a little
break and then losing boat crews will
get remediated four miles litter boat on
your head yeah you know why because it's
fun to paddle it in the water and you
can surf it so fuck you yep yeah that
look at that neck on that front right
guy just but don't do short races
they'll do long ones and how much that
boat way well that's a good question um
it looks inflatable it is it's an IBS
inflatable boat small but still probably
150 200 pounds and then you gotta
imagine sometimes there's water sloshing
around in there sometimes it's sand in
there because we do let him paddle
they'll do races where they have to run
go out past the surf zone flip the boat
over for no reason other than it's
difficult and it forces them to get wet
right the boat come back in continue the
race but so if you win that you might
get you know 15 minutes while we're
mediating the class and we know what's
gonna happen in that 15 minutes you see
people sleeping standing up
you see people facedown on a high lick
track in the sand sleeping they're
sitting there sleeping and it's kind of
just a reward and you just Lee Malone
see what I'm sleep for 15 minutes give
you a little bit yeah wake up bitch
pretty much talk to work get right back
on that ocean Wow five days of that yeah
hmm and it's earned about people in that
you learn a lot and you see people push
to the point where do you care about me
over week and we get rid of the people
who cannot prioritize we over me mmm
damn arrogance comes out you see it a
lot in the the leadership as well you
know the students are largely the same
like from a physiological perspective
ones that are faster runners and from a
contractile potential like more stamina
or cardio respiratory endurance but most
of them are the same that's like the
probably like a 3% difference between
the students but these little pods of
seven people some of them can work
together and they're just crushing it
and other ones you'll see you know
there's oars in the boat so when they
run they're stuffed on the top and
you'll see they'll be out paddling and
then you'll just see a sword fight start
with people just knocking each other's
heads off with oars oh fuck yeah because
look I mean imagine how exhausted you
are you are so exposed in raw so
suppressed as a human being like from
all the physical tools that we have that
the real person comes out and sometimes
boat crews will just eject a person able
hate that person so much because they're
they might be selfish or arrogant and
they're not pulling their weight and
they will just harp on that person or
beat the shit out of a person eventually
they'll end up quitting now when they do
get in a sword fight what do you do do
you kick them out if they get in sword
fights would you let them sort it out
I'm a Lim sorted out plus they're out of
the water I'm not going out there
[Laughter]
other times you're watching it through
by nose it seems like that's one of
those things that once you get through
and once you get through buds and once
you get through how weak and once you
get through all the difficult physical
tasks and you actually become a seal how
many people maintain that sort of
Goggins jaakko level of discipline and
keep training constantly and how many
people do the bare minimum it's hard to
say um there are people who slip what
are the requirements once you once
you've gone through all that shit
there's very few and I can only speak
from when I was in in 2013 though I left
last day of June 2 2013 so if it has
changed since then I don't know anything
about it but you know the Navy obviously
it's you're a Navy SEAL so you're
governed by the United States Navy they
make you do a PRT of physical readiness
test which is running pull-ups push-ups
sit-ups and a swim I think because we're
SEALs and your wife could meet the
standards my 11 year old daughter could
probably meet that they're not crazy is
what I'm saying so the bar
if you trip over the bar at that point
like you you know your hamstrings don't
work or you know just you suck it but
there are varying levels there are
people who are very like the individuals
that you're talking about and then there
are others that will let it slip and
they slip a percentage point over time
there's some you know obese disgustingly
overweight seals not many and everything
in between so the hard way for me to
give you like exact numbers on that I
would say more guys trend towards the
Jocko Goggins realm because it's a very
self critiquing community in most ways
it's like working inside of a piranha
tank and if there's a drop of blood
they're just like yes he'll eat you now
mmm
we're very hard on each other for sure
how much how many of them are involved
in martial arts again hard to say
because I know it has drastically
changed since I was in the amount of so
I was telling before I sat down with
Henner
Gracie yesterday we were just talking
about a lot about his interaction with
law enforcement and how they got started
and it was with the Rodney King rides
actually I didn't know that but that's
when they started interfacing with law
enforcement earlier yeah he had his dad
the generation for him they started
sitting on a panel you know talking
about I think essentially combatives
with the hand on hand type stuff with
the LAPD that's but that's where it
started and it's grown since then when I
went through I don't remember much
discussion of martial arts at all
there was prisoner handling or you know
detaining people and cuffing them the
terminating point would be to get their
hands behind their back and flex-cuf
them we didn't use metal handcuffs we
would use tie ties you know just cuz
there you can put a lot you can slide
them in your gear and just easily cinch
on them but I think that it has
drastically changed since I have been in
and I think a lot of that that was
driven by individuals I mean I'm sure
you see it I mean I feel so stupid being
late to the game to jujitsu and I know
that it is definitely I want to say
invading all of those communities
might be a good term infecting it's just
it's there's a groundswell from guys who
are learning on their own so it's
increasing but it was not prevalent when
I was in unless you were an individual
practitioner doing it on your own or had
a buddy that would deal with you really
that's interesting I would have assumed
that it would have been a core part of
training like from the beginning just to
build character and to understand what
happens if you do lose your gun or if
you do are in a situation where you
don't have a weapon well there's not a
lot of situations in real life that you
can point back to from my community
where that has happened and quite
frankly ego gets into the way and you'll
hear guys say things like well why do I
need to bro I don't need to go hands-on
with anybody this is all I got right
here right and that's purely just ego
and what ends up happening is is in I
was talking about the hen about this
yesterday and I have a much better
understanding of it now you can elicit
actions from people if you don't know
what you're doing if you do have to go
hands-on and you're trying to detain
somebody but you're asking about how
much I weighed right how much gear I had
so I'm usually would float somewhere
between 205 to 215 when I was in so add
80 to 90 pounds on top of that and now
I'm kneeling on your back alright and
but I don't understand weight
distribution I don't understand leverage
I don't understand the way that the
joints move that well and you're trying
to comply but I'm applying so much
weight to you that it's forcing you
towards a fight or flight situation and
you can you can increase the deadly
deadliness of these situations
unintentionally and get yourself into a
position where you might have to take
somebody's life but they didn't deserve
it it was actually your fault because
you drove them to that point because you
were not judicious judiciously applying
the pressure that you needed to well you
see that with police when you watch
videos cops trying to detain suspects
and then they lose control situation and
it's purely because they don't have an
understanding of how to control person
they run out of tools I have a ton of
empathy for law enforcement if you're
out on the streets and you have verbal
commands and then a Taser and maybe a
pepper sprays and there's somewhere I
don't even know if they still use that
but then your next resource is a gun and
you rapidly go through all those off
I understand how those situations occur
and I'm not trying to justify them in
any way whatsoever but I understand what
happens when you reach the limits of
your tools and you're left with what you
think is a life-threatening situation
hannah has some great videos of breaking
down what goes wrong with police when
they're trying to detain someone it's
often times two and three on one and
they wind up getting killed there's
there's videos of guys having a suspect
on the ground and a suspect there's not
trained in martial arts yeah but
unfortunately the cops aren't either and
they're doing these stupid things and
hitting this person and trying to
control them and then the guy gets out
gets to his car pulls out a gun and
kills them and I've watched a video like
that recently so the guy who got me into
jujitsu was a sheriff and I actually
just the only reason I started this
because I wanted him to shut up I had
known him for like a year like cousin
and for me it's like the harder you push
that I mean I'm like I'm not doing it
ever I don't care oh you like carrot
cake I'm never having a piece of carrot
cake I will not have a piece so we're at
my house drunk downstairs at the bar and
he was like you know we were standing
there drinking he tried to put me like a
standing head in our I'm trying like
this is how I would choke he was like if
you start right now
you'll never tap me he was a four stripe
white belt at the time got his blue belt
shortly after oh that's hilarious if you
start right now you'll never tap me so
he claims he didn't say this he said it
so I went to a class like the next day
and and fell in love with it and he got
pulled into and started you Jitsu
because a buddy of his got into damn
year life-or-death fight where I live up
in Kalispell Sheriff's Department
doesn't have that many people on shift
and a response time of 20 to 30 minutes
is impossible for sure so this guy goes
out he's in the fight for his life and
like two feet of snow in the wintertime
oh Jesus and I think one of the first
things that happened is his radio got
ripped off
that's a fucking problem right if you
need to call for backup but fortunately
they have procedures like I guess if you
check in and then for a certain period
of time like you don't people start
moving their car on the right direction
start coming to you if you don't check
in a longer period of time you know the
lights and sirens come on so other
people came he was okay and he just got
his brown belt not too long he's a
savage what so what happened to him uh
obviously I wasn't there but
it was he pulled somebody over for a
particular reason I don't know what it
was and this is an interesting thing too
that I've come to understand better
developing friendships with law
enforcement you know they they come up
to a car and they're just there doing a
stop and it's another touch point for
their day but somebody in a car might be
in the back they're mine thinking oh my
god like I have a misdemeanor or a
felony I might be going to prison for
the rest of my life so two very
different head spaces as they converge
in this instance I believe there's a
pistol that was in between the driver's
seat in the little center console the
individual went for it it's somehow they
came out of the car and it just became a
scuffle at that point and they fought
until other cops arrived and basically
dog piled on the person and ended it and
it was over I believe they were at that
for like 10 to 15 minutes geez and for
people who don't understand how hard it
is to go that hard for 10 or 15 minutes
I mean fuck well if they weren't in
shape and that guy was that would have
been death so he found jiu-jitsu he just
got his brown belt he's awesome but he
started my buddy who made that comment
and then I have started they'll do
defensive tactics stuff I've helped him
out twice where I'll just go and I'll be
a role player I'll just you know lay
there on the ground and put my hands
underneath my chest and they have to try
to cuff me and it's an eye-opening
experience I mean I've been at this for
18 months I'll be the first to tell you
I don't know shit I'm at the point now
where I'm starting to realize how little
I actually know a blue belt now correct
yeah um and it's it's like a foreign
language like I can kind of see a little
bit of the alphabet but don't even think
for a second that I'm trying to put
together words yet let alone sentences
and so I'll go and you know I did I was
a role player for two of those and it
was interesting I saw some of the same
stuff where you can elicit responses for
people like I was I was resisting but
not a crazy amount and then the amount
of pressure that they started to like
applying to me grabbing fingers and
pulling my fingers back it it almost to
me I like I wanted to ramp it up just
like anybody else would so they're
without that skill or without that tool
in their tool belt you run out of
options
and it's they mean they have a dangerous
job very at it as it is and so after
doing that defensive tactics it's
actually why I created this shirt I was
that shirt as straight blast Jim said
International SPG is where I trained
well I was founded by Matt Thornton and
my coach was Travis Davison he was here
as well that's the same SPG as in Carlin
yeah one of the coaches but so where did
it start Matt Thornton started it he got
his black belt from Chris Houser okay
Chris no doesn't Machado guy correct
yeah so when he can Machado I believe
powder Matt and then Mike coach Travis
who you met the last time I was on is
the owner of the SPG's but you talk to
these guys and we you know we do this
session and you can see that their eyes
are kind of wide like what the fuck just
happened
and the next thing I want to know is
about cost and Travis has an awesome job
and I think it's SPG why they will give
a discount for law enforcement but I
feel like it's so important for them and
I want them to be better at doing their
job for my family so I just made this
shirt and every penny that goes from the
sale of a shirt I'm gonna start doing
scholarships not all the way for the
guys because they need to have some skin
in the game but I want to get as many
law enforcement and first responders on
the mats as possible so I want to lower
the cost working with Travis and the SPG
organization to start with to just get
people in the door
hmm because I mean you know this
probably better thing but like you don't
actually have to know that much to
radically increase your safety
especially if you're dealing with
somebody who doesn't know shit yeah the
average blue bow could manhandle the
average human yes imagine if every
police officer or first responder had
that ability whether it could be dealing
cuz you know these guys are not dealing
with people it's not like hey Joe it's
great to see you today nobody calls nine
when one is like oh my god let me tell
you about the most awesome day that I
just had are you ready for this fuck it
was my birthday we had a party there was
a cake the presents were amazing no it's
like oh my they're going to crisis
tricked we're dealing with drunk people
they're dealing with people who are on
drugs and I don't want to see anybody
get hurt or killed specifically them so
I want to have
more tools and I don't want them to have
an economic buffer do that so trying to
raise as much or not raise as much money
but cells made sure it's possible and
then go all that money towards
scholarship in those guys that's
organization love it it's awesome yeah
yeah I think all martial arts I mean I
think they should learn striking for
sure yet but I think that out of all
martial arts jiu-jitsu for a law
enforcement officer it's probably the
most important because the struggle for
a gun the struggle for you know getting
a hold of someone pulling a gun and
being able to control their arm and
getting a hold of them it's so critical
well you can stop stuff early to even
just a simple arm drag yeah like you can
write you can see people's body language
you're like oh okay you don't know this
or this is about to get a little you see
people start to clench their fence right
like you can see those behaviors and a
simple arm drag where you can step
behind and control the other arm like
for a law enforcement officer to
understand that concept be able to do
that right you're already in control
yeah whereas if you don't you see the
guy in the next you know you're in a
boxing match it's like I don't know
maybe you were a Golden Gloves boxer and
maybe your teeth are gonna get fuckin
knocked out and you're gonna get a knock
your family's gonna get a knock on the
door yeah so easily yeah yeah I always
try to tell people you know what for
every law enforcement video that you see
where things went wrong when someone was
a piece of shit and some cop did
something horribly abusive you got to
think of the millions of interactions
that cops have with people don't go that
way
daily yeah you're looking at it's a it's
a you're getting a very biased
perspective of what it's like to be a
law enforcement officer and then on top
of that that I'm a big supporter of law
enforcement always have been because I'm
a person who understands the necessity I
understand what like what a lawless
world would look like and people only
want to look at the cops that have done
poorly but it's like what you were
talking about with seals with anything
the bottom 10% and the top 10% there's a
there's a certain type of person that's
a police officer there shouldn't be a
cop they just shouldn't be a cop and a
lot of times those are the ones you're
seeing in these situations and also a
lot of times when you're looking at
these videos you're looking at someone
who's got severe PTSD untreated and
unrespected that they they're
encountering every day during
countering liars and thieves and at any
moment they're pulling somebody over and
they could lose their life at any moment
they're looking at this car and it's got
tinted windows they don't know who's in
the backseat now like fuck is there a
shotgun pointing at my face right now
and you don't know the headspace of the
person that you're like I've said it
yeah so interesting to me to hear them
they're like hey man I want to go home
at the end of the day this is my job
yeah like I have a family I have kids I
work for 12 hours ten-hour shift yeah
I'm not trying to ruin anybody's life
but you know I saw somebody swerving
across the road it's my job an
obligation if I'm over I don't know what
the fuck is going on in that person's
head and then those two things can
combine and it's like poof yeah it's a
tough world I have nothing I have a ton
of empathy for people who operate in
that world and if you've never had to
make decisions like that in time
compressed environments it's hard to
describe yeah and I was driving down the
street once in LA and there was a
billboard where they were trying to hire
police officers and they were they were
touting how much money you get paid and
I remember thinking looking at that
billboard that is one of the worst
pieces of motivation like if that's your
motivation to be a police officer look
you can get $35,000 a year to start like
hey get out now get out now because if
you don't truly love the idea of being a
law enforcement officer you're not truly
in love with that like and you're just
saying oh this is a good way to make 50
grand a year like there's better ways to
make 50 grand a year that are gonna have
a risk to your life no daily yeah hourly
identical a minute basic what you'd want
is everyone who's doing it to want to do
good for the community and want to make
the world a better place that's ideal
you know and then you get varying levels
in between that and the the people that
are just doing it because they don't
have another way to make 50 grand a year
yeah yeah it's and then it's kind of the
same as military to you know the
military is a stable paycheck but if
you're coming to the military for the
money you're probably better off doing a
shorter tenure or at or if you want to
stay for longer and you want to dive
deep it it probably at least from my
opinion would be that you need to have
some sense of purpose or calling that is
coming from that occupation as well
because you're not you're not going to
which run in the military for sure what
you get out of that though the one thing
that I noticed from military folks and
just from whether it's team guys or just
just people that have there's a lot of
the level of discipline that I know that
you have you know if you if you've had a
successful career in the military
particularly if you're a team guy
there's a level of disciplines that you
have that gives me comfort like I know
this guy's got a shit together
I have selective discipline mmm yeah but
you could turn it on up at a reasonable
hour you can turn it on like this I
can't there's something about wanting to
sleep late just to say fuck you that's
kind of appealing as well there's the
the guy that gets up at 4:30 every
fucking morning like Jocko it's
possessed it's he's he's got a demon in
his head you're not you're not putting
that fire out with regular water yeah
but there's a the discipline is the big
thing man successful military because
the military and I think this is a
reason why some people will struggle
when they get out the military is a very
task centric organization they will set
for you parameters left and right
boundaries and they'll say if you want
to get to X Y Z you're starting at a
these are the things that you have to do
the people who are efficient at
traveling from A to Z are the ones who
are disciplined to take that next step
they keep the world small they focus on
the bread crumb in front of them and you
once you do that and can understand that
concept you can you can apply to any
aspect of your life what gets some guys
and it got me to when you get out you're
like well who's gonna give me the task
rikes well who's telling me what needs
to be done right and then and the answer
is you so you see guys they're just
wildly entrepreneurial because they'll
find something they're passionate about
and then they apply that same concept of
just continuing to go forward they'll
have micro failures but they don't allow
micro failures to impact macro outcomes
right because again small versus large
yeah and you'll see them bounce around
and they it is larger that discipline
and it's there's no secret recipe to it
it's like people again Jacko's hilarious
people like choco what should I do to
eat better and his response will be
better
he answers their rhetorical question
with a portion of the rhetorical
question yeah
Jocko how do I clean up my diet clean up
your diet like well there's it's not
check it surgery what's going on with
people is that they just want to talk
they just worry they want to talk about
it yeah they want to talk about it like
what
how should I get going what should i do
like what's a good way to do it and you
can give them a little bit of advice
like my advice is always write things
down that you want to do what do you
want to write write yourself down a
schedule every day okay write yourself
down let's get I mean you might have to
adjust it based on time constraints and
but if you just write down today I'm
gonna run four miles I'm gonna do 500
push-ups I'm gonna do a thousand situps
I'm gonna do this and that and that and
this and then check it off do those
things if you if you could just write
shit down and make sure you do it every
goddamn day write down what you have to
do that day it's amazing what you can
accomplish my list would have none of
those things on there well you don't
have to not running for miles ever I
think I ran four miles last year
well you fucked up your hip and getting
shot and you really best part about
getting shot it's no running can you run
like distances and stuff where is it you
still have nerve damage yo my leg is I
have the neuropathic damages is gonna be
there forever I can run my gait is a
little bit messed up so then I have like
weird compensatory issues that'd be a
real issue for joints as well right it's
not smart maybe yeah
if people uh let's just say I'm one of
my ankles I can tolerate a foot lock a
lot better than the other one and people
I'm just looking at them and they're
just like oh my god I'm good but is it
because you can't feel it oh yeah it's
totally fucking the that's not good yeah
but it's good you make eye contact with
them and you can see they're just like I
don't feel comfortable cranking on this
more you know what I got into man when I
i suffered this insufficiency fracture
with I I got enough a fall skiing which
is my oh my fucking hate skiing I ski
because my family likes to ski this is
me skiing don't get her don't get her
don't get her don't get hurt didn't get
hurt but this time I got hurt this is
fucking lady she was a noob and she
didn't know what she was doing she slid
she could she was on this little side
hill trying to put her skis on and she
just we right into the trail right when
I was coming around a corner and I was
like I'm gonna kill this lady I got
I got a wipeout and I wiped out cracked
my fucking head butt slam my knee really
hard and I knew something was wrong then
I went and got it checked and I did an
MRI and it's actually a fracture in the
shin bone so I go Creek right so doctors
like you can't run for six weeks so I
said I got into stair mills stair mill
those fucking things just a purple
staircase dude I didn't think those
would be that hard I believe you know
people is like stairway to heaven no
that's the stairway to hell turn that
bitch up to 15 and good luck with you
good luck with you it's a in the
beautiful thing about it is it's zero
impact you're just stepping it's you're
just stepping and goddamn with ferocious
cardio you can get out of those things
yeah throw a weight vest on that's what
I'm talking about or you know they have
this Atlas pack that the outdoorsman's
outdoorsmen Star Comics have you seen
one of those it's the one you put the
plate on the back yeah that's the shit
cuz you can get 90 pounds on that
motherfucker I get to put it around on
exactly like a like a real rock sack
it's a military rucksack frame exact
it's perfect because the the frame is
four pack it's a there outdoorsman's
make an excellent hunting frame a pack
it's like a really sturdy pack that I
learned about from Remy Warren and Steve
Rinella and these guys just swear by
this this one backpack frame cuz it's
like super sturdy and it's just
excellent for packing out like elk like
you know you've had a pack out-and-out
before
yeah you don't know what weight is until
you're going uphill with a fucking leg
on your back you know with a back with
no a backpack with no frame yeah get
some of that party good luck with that
yeah the difference between a backpack
with a frame like a really melt like a
Cafaro
a really well made outdoor centric
backpack first there's some bullshit
backpack that's just designed to have
like a laptop in it and you're trying to
carry your shit around in that yeah it's
a big difference and did this the just
the way the the loading shelf is and the
way that straps in and the angle that
it's supposed to sit on your back
there's all science to it
so with these outdoorsman's frames you
get like the best aspects of an out
or pack but you have this big-ass post
on the back just like a Olympic bar you
slide those plates on it and clamp it
down it all sits perfect and you get a
insane workout with one of those on one
little stair mill oh yeah it'll change
if your normal workout is without that
and you just start start light people
it'll it does some amazing things for
sure did you at any point in time
consider using her as a jump instead of
wrecking my catch them sweet air I
forgot I was turning the corner she was
right there I was so quick I had a wipe
I was gonna kill her I was like I don't
think hit her I killed her
I was going pretty quick you could have
gone up and done like the little skis to
decide ha I'm not good at that I'm not
very good at skiing I'm competent at
skiing but I was like I'm I wasn't gonna
kill her but I would've maybe broke her
leg yeah you know I mean I want to break
some lady's leg I was just coming around
this corner and I see her I see this I
don't have control thing I'm like fuck
she's going and then I see kids this way
I'm like I can't go that way
shit and it's just time to go down
sacrificed body my head was the weird
one wearing his helmet yeah but I was
dizzy for the rest of the devs like a
little out of it I was like oh I got my
Bell wrong concussion you think ah for
sure something happened yeah because it
was a bang it was hard packed snow and
my legs went up and my head went down it
was a big bang do I have a strong neck
fortunately so there wasn't as much
rattle as could have been yeah and I
kind of knew it was coming you know but
I was I was my bell was wrong for sure
and then because I was a little dizzy
afterwards I went to I was with my
11-year old and we were going on to the
ski lifts and I just I was out of it and
I thought you know the things come
around yep and I timed it wrong my fuck
I went too soon I'm stuck and I'm like I
can't go I fell down and this lady had
to help me get back up yes out of it I
was just like not quite there
yes very embarrassed sounds like you
suffered a head injury yeah I definitely
did but it was only like for the day the
day I was just a little out of it but
the next day I was finals I was woke up
prepared for the
headache yeah there's no like the post
post sparring headache that I used to
get all the time I got my bell rung
pretty good I think about a month ago
actually on Matt's climbing on a guy's
back it was a good lesson for me too
I was uh slip over the top no I I got
both of my hands involved and he rolled
and snapped my head into the mat and I
don't have a chase planted but I and I
didn't again I don't know shit so I'm
learning it's a mistake that I haven't
made since then but yeah I had my hooks
in and was kind of just getting too
involved in that drastic movement and it
was a full whack doing the same thing in
the headache for a few days afterwards
dudes get wild when they they try to get
out of things and that that's a
particularly dangerous move when
someone's on your back and you decide to
yeah slam them into the ground it's kind
of a dickhead move really well it would
have been okay if I had had at least one
post but like I said I was I wasn't
thinking about that that wasn't standing
did he try he was turtled I don't think
I would crawl on somebody's back if they
were standing it's not very advanced you
guys you're background it you would
probably your digits is probably
different than mine but even taking
someone's back standing is tricky as
fuck because they can just throw
themselves backwards and on concrete oh
that's a game over it's a death sentence
that's what I actually thought about
that afterwards because you will see
people who you know I'm here because I
want to learn to protect myself in the
street mm-hmm and if I had done that on
the street and had my head cracked on
concrete they either been waking up in
the hospital or not at all you got to
kick their legs out in those situations
if you have someone's back and you're
standing you got a you got a mean the
the options that exist that don't exist
in jujitsu one of them is you kick their
fucking legs out if you have someone's
back you know you actually kick their
leg you don't just just jump on them
with the hooks in on concrete it's just
too dangerous before you get to that
position you you want to yank them and
do something trip them do something to
to get rid of their base but someone
who's strong that's so dangerous because
someone who's strong can carry you on
their back and then just throw
themselves backward
I'm Eva hardwood floor anything more
even against a building or anything
anything you want to get them to the
ground you want to get into the ground
or standing guillotine like you in your
front position something that's another
one that's really fucking dangerous man
see ya guys have gone for takedowns with
guillotines likes a guy shoots in with
it with for a takedown and a guy grabs a
guillotine and pulls back and then this
guy's head is the host yes okay a guy on
Team Alpha male on your eye favors team
line up getting paralyzed for life that
way yeah in training on the match yep
yeah in training shoots in for the
takedown and the guy gets him in the
guillotine and they all all their weight
together falls on this guy's head and
his neck compresses and his neck breaks
and he loses his his ability to move for
the rest of his life it's that's a
common one in fact it's not common but
it's happened multiple times that I'm
aware of and you know you gotta imagine
on the street you know someone tries to
take you down on the street and and you
elevate and go into a guillotine
position and they fall down and slam
their fuckin head first it's gonna crack
it open probably - yeah it's this
there's so many I mean one thing that is
a good criticism about jujitsu is the
lack of takedowns and that is a real
factor in any sort of real world
situation the hope is if you're in a bar
something like that there's a scramble
most things wind up on the ground that's
true
until you deal with a skilled opponent
and if you deal with a skilled opponent
who has takedown defense and then you're
stuck in the situation where now you're
in a realm where you're a white belt and
this guy's a black belt look if someone
is a problem a wrestler looking strike
it's a terrible position to be in and we
saw that with a lot of in the early
UFC's in particular a lot of jiu-jitsu
blackbelt just didn't have takedowns and
then they would get involved a wrestler
who would easily stuff their takedown
and the wrestler was a better striker
and those guys got fucked up
you had imagine that'd be a quick doubt
it's not good I mean the only thing a
lot of guys did was they would follow
their back and try
pull guard and try to entice a guy into
coming to their back and then they would
kick off their back like those kicks and
use those those tactics when he fought
Funaki right knee up kick yeah and he
actually wanna fucking up foon Aki's
knee by kicking at his knee hyper
extending his knee friends rugged yeah
that's a common common technique you
know guys standing over you and you're
on your back posting up hyper extend his
knee
it's just like judo is the best in my
opinion for someone who's wearing
clothes you know I think every jiu-jitsu
guy would really greatly benefit from
having a good comprehensive knowledge of
judo how deep would you go judo is a
good thing to learn man just period
first of all those guys are so freaky
chimp strong some of the freakiest chimp
strong guys ever roll with with judo
people cuz judo players man they're just
all everything is to constantly list
they're constantly grabbing everything
is torque and rotation there's so much
explosive movement carrying a human body
it's right so they're doing explosive
movement like sandbag training with
another 200-pound person all the time or
larger particularly women like Ronda
Rousey no god damn strong that woman is
she freakishly strong no I bet because
she her whole body was designed to you
know throw bodies around throw a human
body I mean it's like you think of
weightlifting right like when are you
ever weightlifting your whole body well
maybe if you're squatting or maybe if
you're bench pressing if you're
exceptionally strong or dead lifting
yeah or dead lifting those are like the
compound movements but like curling or
try Supercenter none of those things
overhead press very rarely are you using
your whole body weight that way I don't
think it's advisable to do that with
their whole body weight and your whole
body weight is way more difficult to
control because it's moving and
resisting and it's you know try picking
up a dead body a person who's out cold
it's fucking hard
you got a school person you're like if I
had to pick up a dude he's 195 pounds
I'm gonna pick him up and he's out cold
fuck that's hard you got to put 80
pounds of gear on yes I would I could
only imagine and guns dangling all over
the place
so the judo player imagine that but
that person also resisting you know like
there's some of the freakiest strongest
people in the world I just sit down
when I start with judo people my haha I
watch them over in the corner and I hear
just what yeah okay I'm gonna sit down
it's a beautiful thing to learn though
it's a beautiful thing to learn if you
can get someone that'll that'll really
work with you and whose technique
oriented not someone who just wants you
to spar all the time because one of the
things that happens with judo a lot when
people are just getting involved that
there's a lot of scrambling on the feet
that could put your legs in a
compromised position when your knee
blows out how much isn't your time
watching the UFC how many of the
takedowns do you see or judo based it's
not that often but some guys are really
good at it and the guys that are really
good at it it comes up you know there's
there's there's some guys back when Karo
Parisyan was fighting karo was a great
judo player who was in the early earlier
days of the successful UFC was one of
the better judo guys and he would hit he
would hit hip tosses and all kinds of
different judo throws all the time and
Ronda of course you would do it all the
time too but with Ronda that was
basically the only way she would take
you down was with like upper body grabs
she'd grab she with her move was like to
grab with grab the head and then take
people down with that and and use judo
but it does happen but it only happened
you know it happens with skilled players
yeah but when when it does happen it's
like it's a it's a big surprise
oftentimes like whoa one of those people
are the anomaly to not the norm I mean
they're too trained fighters at the apex
of their sport ya know somebody with a
moderate level or understanding of judo
is probably not gonna have that
difficulty in a bar right yeah right
well nor is a wrestler yeah you know I
mean just and again with wrestling see I
always say that if if a kid wants to
learn martial arts like there's a lot of
good things they should learn but one of
the things they should learn first is
wrestling because it sucks so hard it
sucks so hard it'll teach you whether or
not you really want to fight whether you
really want to compete yeah you know
I've heard horror stories actually Kalin
last I was telling horror store
wrestling and wrestling Keith cashmere
shirts on you know I need to determine
whether or not he was talking about his
experience other people's experience or
he was making up every goddamn thing he
was saying it's hard to tell
yeah he sells it so he sells it so well
though that I don't even care cuz it's
so entertaining he definitely could
wrestle yeah I got count involved in
jiu-jitsu in 96 but I stuck with it yeah
and he did not sort of drifted in and
out and he told the story last night if
we know basically why he stopped he was
watching I think it was he said hens Oh
was giving a you know basically a little
bit of a deeper dive on to a finer
refinement of a tea technique you know
instead of having your hand in this
direction you know rotate it the other
way and he said he just stood there and
realized I just don't care anymore
well Kallen is one of those guys that
gets into things for a little bit and
then bails on it he's like never once
gave him a free bar I know he showed it
to me the last time I was down he's
everyone drawn it back I think it's so
it might have the plastic on the string
so you can't draw it back son of a bitch
yeah he's gonna come over and learn he's
telling me last night
I need a tactical shotgun Kallen what
makes a shock and tactical he's like the
ability to go boom boom boom boom boom
boom boom he's like but I need a short
barrel but seventh inning he's like
seven rounds and I'm gonna use birdshot
I was like fuck man this is getting
worse every time he's like bird shots
what I need right bird shuttle do I'm
like bird shots great for birds but so
he basically wants a huge shotgun with
like a huge magazine tube but a barrel
that sits two feet back from the
magazine tube so they'll just bounce
stuff yeah the the the trajectory of
kallen and I with hunting it shows like
the difference between us as humans like
in 2012 we both went hunting for the
first time yeah and since then the only
time he's gone hunting is with me and
since then he's killed well he killed a
deer with me and then I'm assuming where
I fit I think that's it
yeah I think that's it we went turkey
hunting I got one he struck out
we went black tail hunting on Prince of
Wales in Alaska we pull struck out and
then we got we had a we had a bail a day
early because of a storm coming in we're
gonna get trapped that was the most
miserable trip ever but it was really
educational
wasn't that a meat-eater show yeah I
watched that one yeah you guys you guys
were like hey we can get a plane in
right now well we were about to get
stuck and I had gigs I was like I can't
cancel gigs and this is fun and
everything like that but there's a real
possibility I might not be able to get
out of here you guys didn't see shit
shit we we saw a couple deer and we saw
they saw some black bear it was just it
was strategically the wrong time to be
in that area but it was very educational
it was educational is about how good the
son felt when I came back like it's only
sunny in LA but I called Rinella up when
I got back and I was like dude I have
never been happier than today like I
know it was miserable up there because
you think one of the things that was uh
like it wasn't that bad
but what was what sucked is there's no
dry there was no dry there's never dry
you thought well I'll be in the tent
I'll be dry no there's no dry I got up
to take a piss one night and I turn on
my headlamp and all I could see inside
the tent was water vapor
just just droplets and I was like oh
there's no dry no and that's getting
into every fibre yeah everything every
in that tent I had a wet sleeping bag
which is adorable
yeah wet sleeping bags are adorable it's
like oh you know why I have this on yeah
I hate the water I would not go there
but it was fun it was fun the
camaraderie was fun it's always fun
being with Kalyn and the meat-eater guys
they were great and we did wind up
starting a fire one night with Fritos
you know Fritos or excellent fire
starters the chips yeah yeah those
greasy little fucking cunt eat chips
those things off those things are
fucking delightful very delicious right
like I said I have selective discipline
stay lit for a long-ass time you just
light him with a lighter yeah yeah they
still stay lit for a long time it's kind
of crazy and so this is one of the guys
that worked there
some someone knew it someone knew it and
then we let the she dose or the Fritos
rather and the the Fritos lit these
little tweeters are delightful Cheetos
are kunti cheetos are not as good as
Fritos they look good because they're
big and fluffy and then but it's so much
much much much before you get to the
real there's like air in them they're
bullshit
I think they're delightful no no cheeto
Cheetos yes among Cheetos yeah yeah
Fritos your that's an honest snack and
you can use like a spoon if you get the
party size that's true
yes you can and you can also lose use
them to start a fire so we lit the
Fritos and then we put the twigs over
the Fritos we got a little fire going we
were so pump because everything was
soaking wet so then we started like
looking for areas that were less wet you
know like under law or you know like on
the back side of trees we carved some
bark off of those and then we got some
wet logs and put it close to that to try
to dry it off but eventually we got to
we had a whole day like from like maybe
like three in the afternoon to like you
know three or four in the morning where
was no rain which was crazy
it never happens up there the rainiest
place in North America and we actually
got a fire going it was fun but then
when I got back home I remember thinking
man this is why you have to suffer cuz I
feel so good like I've never feel this
good about California like usually the
rain the Sun is just always there you
just take it for granted but this day I
was like ah ha the way I felt on my face
it's like I was on a happy drug I was
like I felt so good and I called him up
and I go dude I've never been happy in
my life and I think that's one of the
things like you really have to get into
those valleys to appreciate to really
hit those peaks I think that's what's
going on right now as you're saying that
I'm thinking about like literally what's
happening in this country and I hope
that you know we get to the point where
we see the Sun and we feel it but then
we have to also not forget I think
you're a hundred percent right I think
we have it really really easy in this
country what you were saying about this
is the reality of third world countries
or places where I mean you're under a
military dictatorship where you can't
get food you can't travel wherever you
want to you don't have the freedom to
move about whenever you want to and
we're in this weird situation here today
in California they've put this lockdown
on everybody where supposedly until
April 19th you can't have a gathering of
more than ten people and you're all
essential businesses are supposed to be
closed like well fucking good luck with
that yeah
good luck good luck good luck with a
whole month of P telling people they
can't work this is crazy
I had a experience that stuck with me
that that I use as like a lens of
context from overseas and it was from
Afghanistan I was in a sniper overwatch
position and I was watching a it was on
one side of the valley there was a unit
on the other side of the valley and
there was a village in between and I
watched an individual come out in the
morning to the only water source in the
valley small stream and watch him just
take a shit in the water oh Jesus Christ
and then later on in the day another
person came out and downstream of that
took a bath in the water and later on in
the day a woman came out with two kids
and got their drinking water downstream
from both of those things and went back
to their house and it's like okay we
have it really really good really really
really really good and in that village
there was probably a light bulb why did
he take a shit in the river maybe he
didn't have any toilet paper because the
grocery store was out yeah I mean so
that's the thing about people that's
this willingness to do something that
you know is gonna negatively impact
others but you don't care because in the
moment it's good for you like when you
see someone throwing a cigarette out the
window of their car that's a perfect
example that they don't want that
cigarette in their car so they just say
oh somebody else I'll handle it
yeah but if you see enough of those
things or in that it reframes the way
that you look at what people complain
about hmm and I've thought about that
day very often because in that short
period of time it's just like I don't
ever really have that much to complain
about like what's gonna go on right now
for the next few months I would guess
maybe the rest of the year is gonna be
horrendous and I hope that everybody
makes it out okay on the other side but
the reality is people are gonna die and
it's gonna suck and it's gonna destroy
families and there's the economic
destruction will probably be worse
and the physical destruction from a
death side of the house but we're still
gonna be okay at the end of that and
even as if it gets horrendous here we
are doing so much better than so many
other people on the face of this earth
their daily best is not gonna even
approach what its gonna look like at our
worst as we navigate our way through
this my biggest concern is not just the
deaths which is a big concern not just
the financial crisis which is also a big
concern but it's also the government
gobbling up freedoms in in exchange for
the illusion of safety that's a real
concern it's been happening for a long
time though yeah but it's it's also
whenever there's a real crisis there's
always an excuse to pass legislation
that diminishes our rights I mean it's
just it's makes it easier for them makes
it easier for them to do what they
perceive to be their job only if people
are scared yeah it's you know because
they're finding the seams and people's
attention span there instead of being
objective they're being emotional and
that clouds your vision and in a cloud
your judgement and when they're not
paying attention because they're scared
because they're online all goddamn day
looking at people taking pictures of the
empty toilet paper aisle in the grocery
store other people who might have
malicious intent are moving on that man
intent and nobody is paying attention to
it yeah that's where a lot of people
that the more what's the best way to say
I'm trying not to use the word retarded
conspiratorial II minded that don't
think very well the first term was
accurate yeah they think of it in terms
of a gigantic conspiracy and this is all
set up know people take advantage of
moments yeah and that's the difference
that's what really happens where there's
moments where they can pass something
like the Patriot Act or the Patriot Act
to they do it it's not because they've
set this up to pass that no they use it
as an opportunity because they know that
people are scared and they use it as an
opportunity to further diminish our
rights because it makes it easier for
them to control us and that's a that's a
real concern right now it's a real
concern right now and it's something
that people go oh that's the last thing
you should be thinking about no it's one
of the things you should be thinking
about there's many things you should be
thinking about right now besides your
safety in your health and
not spreading a disease and making sure
you wash your hands and stay away from
old people and maintain social distance
all that stuff is important but also
recognize what the fuck these career
politicians and these career lawmakers
and these career people that are in
charge of controlling mass groups of
people any laws that help you any rights
that help you it makes their job more
difficult that's something to be
concerned with right now I think fear is
totally natural I think if you don't
experience fear you might trend towards
the sociopathic side of the spectrum but
it's totally natural it should be
expected but you have a choice and how
you receive what is going on and you can
allow the fear to cloud your judgement
and drive your decision-making process
for you can can recognize that the fear
of something you know fear of death
overseas isn't what keeps you alive
objective analytical thought process and
doing the things that need to be done
keep you alive regardless of how scared
you are or fearful you are that's what
keeps you alive it's okay to be scared
but just don't let it just don't let it
take over yeah in control you what the
fuck is going on in Russia right now are
they getting this I haven't heard a
goddamn peep about Russia
either actually it's a good question I
haven't heard a goddamn peep about
Russia like there's very little
discussion about whether or not they've
gotten it I know that it exists in Korea
I know they've got it in South Korea
I've seen the maps where they color code
you know this circular I'm it's gotta be
coronavirus Russia doctors say
government's covering up cases well of
course of course they are well this is
what we have to really worry about with
a with the dictatorship right
that's when what would be the benefit of
doing that what would be the benefit of
covering it up superiority we want to
claim superiority over the testing world
all superiority because at some point
the scales are gonna tip and it at a
point where you can't cover it yeah but
that's part of their whole long game
their whole game is about superiority in
propaganda it's a big part of what they
do I mean they're their gross domestic
product is so small their GDP is that of
a very small European country
yeah we look at that must look at that
number of coronaviruses cases in Russia
not good
oh they're okay they got plenty 253
cases Oh only one death did that but
that's them saying that yeah the fuck do
we know cuz we've had over a hundred
deaths now right there's a hundred
deaths in this country I believe and I
still think that those numbers are
incredibly low I think a lot of people
are probably dealing if you that if you
look at how they describe the symptoms I
bet a lot of people have already dealt
with it and don't even realize it
I think that's absolutely true you look
at injuries Elba how many people are
like that guy who or fit and tested them
I think he got exposure to someone else
who had it and so he felt that to be a
responsible person he was canary self
quarantine and test himself then he
turned out to be positive but you know
he's updating everybody on a daily basis
on Twitter he was concerned also because
he has a pre-existing condition he has
asthma okay even though he says a stud
you know that guy had a Muay Thai fight
no you did it's fucking good to he's
good yeah fought his ass off I think he
won I think he won a decision was a good
fight though I watched on YouTube yeah
he trained more typhus can be written
yeah yeah while he's a movie star
shut the fuck up yeah he's an animal I
love that guy that's awesome
big fan you gotta assume that there are
other people though out there who have
no idea yes just rolling around that's
why I bet the numbers are way higher but
the ratios are probably similar well a
lot of those NBA players that tested
positive for it show no signs but you're
dealing with super athletes right with
ya lost as low risk yeah super healthy
individuals in the prime of their
athletic peak you know here he is right
here training dude he's I mean this is
not a good example here because this is
just him tired hitting the pads but he's
got skills there's a video of his fight
but you can see him here hitting the bag
not bad
I mean he's you know he's no fucking
Giorgio Petrosyan yeah he's not doing it
professionally yeah he's but he's fit
and he's you know he's got skills he
does everything correct he's holding his
hands up what discipline once he got
there on that left ankle it's taped up
probably fucked up his his shin
sparring and so he probably put some
heavy pads on it
probably fucked up his ankle you know
like you kick elbows a lot have you done
much striking striking training see his
knees man zero zero yeah you kick all
hot elbows man you know I kick a lot of
elbow people are up there he is right
here okay he's fighting
this is him fighting these are this good
video of it it's a real fight Aegis Elba
it was for a documentary right so it's
Thailand so he he did a lot of training
in Thailand by the way while he's a
fucking huge movie star you know and
these shorts are so unacceptable yeah
you could see him getting better as he
was doing it but he's he's doing like
legit sparring you know getting thrown
down the whole deal you know you can't
throw somebody down if you caught their
foot like that well it's Highland it's a
huge thing in Thai boxing that's a big
part of the the sport is throws not just
throwing someone from that position but
just throws you know they grab each
other by the head and throw each other
to the ground sweeps catching the leg
look he's like here he is man he's in
his fucking 40s too by the way when he
did this and decided to train and
actually have a real fight let's see
some of the footage of the fight it was
a pretty good fight and the guy he
fought man was not playing games with
him the guy fought was trying to fuck
him up I got nothing but respect for
people who willingly step into that
arena I know but it's just so rare to
see someone who's a bona fide movie star
that's willing to do this he's a bad
dude man
it probably says a lot about his
character I mean yeah ready for that is
not it's not a stroll down the beach at
sunset no and according to all who
trained with him I mean the guy trained
as diligently and as hard as anyone
that's a professional fighter he just
really went after it and really took it
and took the approach of like that this
is a life lesson and he's going to go at
it with a hundred percent of his being
and I just I'm a big fan of this guy I'm
a big fan of him as an actor but when I
found this out and I watched this I was
like okay this guy's a real fucking deal
there's very few people that would do
this when you're absorbing those knees
and those kicks to the high leg what
what's walking like the next day after
elbow it's terrible even just training
when you get hit with with pads on which
someone has like big
shin pads and they they dig a shin into
your thigh
it just gives in man everything just
like flank is horrible like a charlie
horse times 100 but then think of
someone who can really kick you know
yeah think of someone who can look
really fucking turn their body and turn
their weight into it you know I've had
people ask me to kick them in the leg
and I'm like dude I'm not kicking you in
your leg because if I kicking your leg I
might break your fucking legs
why would somebody ever ask first I've
drunk and people being silly people
being silly silly gooses just kicking
one time you look just don't do a full
blast I'm like if I'm kicking you I'm
kicking you full blast as you asked just
cuz you ask is you're so fucking stupid
but like I'm not gonna do that I could
tear your knee apart like you think it's
fun it's not fun no thanks it says the
shin bone is such a nasty bone too
because it's really kind of designed for
slamming into the meat of a thigh it's
just think it's got a blade to it you
know and if someone's good at it and
they're chopping either chopping up or
chopping down with that it it it cuts
your muscle in half it like pushes it's
like that the edge of the shin just
separates that muscle tissue it makes my
stomach hurt listen to you describe that
it's terrible we had a fighter who
fought on the last UFC the one in Vegas
and he in one of his fights his last
fight he had something called
compartment syndrome they pull up the
card let me tell you who this guy is
pull up the car for the last UFC I was
gonna pull it up on my phone
the last UFC that was in Vegas there was
one of the gentleman that was fighting
on the undercard who has a scar that
goes from the top of his thigh all the
way down below his knee yeah he found it
that beautiful put that up in the screen
so this is from one of his fights to I'd
not want to look at this game JB look at
the screen look at the screen so this
yeah that was the tissue in his leg
that's a tube to drain it everything had
gone gray and he was in real danger of
losing his leg it Austin Hubbard right
is that that's the gentleman's name
right yeah okay go back to go back to
the image of his thigh please
so John annek showed it to me during the
broadcast I was like holy fuck like I
had heard that gray is live mole yeah
doesn't look like live down tissue but
all of that is from absorbing shins
so punishing shins to his thigh had made
his legs swell up to double the size
that it normally is and then caused like
this horrible condition called
compartment syndrome I believe that's
how you say it and so they had to open
up his leg and yeah compartment syndrome
is what it is I had never heard that
before
and I've seen a lot of I mean I would
imagine it's probably similar to riot
Faber had when he fought Josie Aldo did
you ever see that fight no you're riot
favorite versus Josie Aldo was the worst
punishment I've ever seen anybody take
to their thigh and Uriah Uriah took the
punishment yes
Josie Alda when Josie was in his prime
and he tortured you rise left leg so
badly that Uriah documented the post
fight and then recovery of it I mean his
leg had turned to this horrific shade of
purple doubled in size and you know he
was he wasn't the same person four
months can you get wrapped up from that
to from the muscle tissue breaking down
and entering the bloodstream that's a
good question I don't know what you get
it's not whatever it is is not good your
I don't think Uriah got compartment
syndrome because he didn't have to get
cut open like Austin Hubbard did but you
think of it this it's fairly rare in
terms of the amount of fighters that we
see fight I mean I've seen thousands of
fights I've only seen one person have
that injury to the extent that Austin
Hubbard had it where he had to get the
slice down the middle of his thigh I
take it you're I lost that fight oh yeah
yeah but man what heart he showed
because most people would have quit I
mean he was so punished his leg was so
horrific so you can get a image of Uriah
Faber's leg post Jose Aldo fight it was
crazy how bad it was and he just kept
eating those leg kicks
that was when Aldo was in his prime his
leg kicks were so fast it's one of the
weird things about him today because
he's still he's only 32 believe it or
not although hey that's your eyes thigh
afterward
oh my yeah well that's long afterwards
that's long afterwards I mean that's him
many weeks later but like right
post-fight there's a bunch of images
that he shared on social media yeah
that's what it looked like like look at
his leg look at that leg I mean is
fucking crazy
look at his calf I mean looks like a
fucking linebackers calf that's just all
swollen with blood and pus and it's from
Aldo just destroying that leg amazing
just amazing how tough he is that he
endured that you guys can have that kid
shit it's fucking Muay Thai and that
shit it's just the worst punishment on
your legs yeah I enjoy watching it but I
know that's much like the ocean no yeah
it's a smart way to look at it I don't
know how we got into compartment
syndrome Oh
kgs elbow yeah coronavirus yeah the fact
that he's yeah he's uniquely fit and
tough guy but this thing about the shin
if someone just does it gently like John
Jones did it gently to Jim Norton my
friend Jim Norton has had is a series of
fighters who have done things to him
like put him in choke holes and armbars
and leg kicked him and also because he
asked them to do it and gently just
gently just gently gently
don't keep me too hard and John just
kind of thumps him just give him a
little thump nothing like what John's
capable of just a little thump it's
fucking horrific it's horrific
just fold him over yeah there was a guy
named Pedro his oh and he used to fight
in the UFC in the heavyweight division
and he fought Randy Couture and Randy
Couture's leg was so fucked up from that
fight that it took him six months to
recover six months to recover from the
leg kicks
he was the he's the hardest kicker I've
ever seen in all my years of watching
people kick legs
I saw Pedro kicked the bag at Beverly
Hills Jiu Jitsu
in like the late 90s I was there I
forget when I was there for and Pedro
was just happened to be doing a workout
on the bag and this was like the early
days of big gyms in Los Angeles there
wasn't a lot of them there was Hickson's
place and the whore ian had
the Gracie and Torrence and then there
was Beverly Hills jiu-jitsu was like
this kind of high-end mixed martial arts
place they were putting together and
Pedro was there training and there was
this you know one hundred and fifty
pound heavy bag and Pedro leg kicks this
thing just whoa whoop since I watched
his bag bend in half and he does it
again
oh my god Trung legs huge legs and
perfect technique and Marco who lost
watch this this is Pedro watch this guy
watch this but look how he digs into it
do it from the beginning again is that
the beginning look at this stomp Pedro
has the hardest leg kicks have ever seen
in all my years of watching full 360
rotation he went flying through the air
yeah like you literally lifted that guy
powerful moustache Dan Severn yeah and
Pedro would just fought people's legs oh
fuck I'm sure he did he blew everybody's
knee out Pedro was a monster the monster
with the leg kicks man oh he just fought
people he he fought Rico Rodriguez and I
remember he leg kicked him once and you
see the look on Rico's face like fuck
this so every time he came close to
doing that Rico would just just dropped
his back and try to submit him a Pedro
was a devastating kicker just even
devastating one of the best I'm not a
fan of the speedos I just I'm glad to be
on that yeah that was an early Brazilian
thing they still fight with speedos I'm
not exactly sure why I can't think of a
single reason why that would make sense
to me to fight another strap I think
that's what the idea was last thing to
ground I'm gonna accept some more
handles for people to grab on to then
rolling around in that fucking grape
smugglers yeah there's something about
those that are particularly offensive
right the girl wearing a bikini bottom
is not offensive at all but a guy
wearing a speedo is very offensive like
why is it seeing more of a man's thighs
is gross I have no answer for that it is
yeah if I see a guy on the beach in a
speedo I judge him
you better have a French accent
motherfucker you better be from a
country that doesn't know anybody
if you're American yeah you bet have
been raised wearing those things if we
went to the beach and Dudley showed up
in speedos hey fuckface
what are you doing yeah I would have a
serious talk with him I'd be like are
you okay if you live in Iowa bro yeah
you can't be wearing Speedos
where'd you get that you have a midlife
crisis you want to tell me about yeah
we'd have a chat and if you're gonna do
it if you're gonna roll in speedos wear
a fucking thong
Lester grab a sword to grab on to well
have you ever seen the tie cups tie
steel cups what's interesting is they
still for some strange reason I'm pretty
sure please google this our thai steel
cups still allowed in MMA
I know Kenny Florian throughout his
career as a fighter wore a tie cop is
this what you're describing made out of
metal it's a cup made out of metal so
the ties it's a very uncomfortable setup
right and what they do is they take this
tie cup and they tie it on and it's tied
on the side it's not a jock strap
because ties aren't paternal a rope like
cinching yeah cinching up your asshole
g-string style deep into your asshole
so that after your fight is on your
you've got a bunch of torn tissue up
there I mean you're gonna have some
problems that's how you do it yeah if
you're gonna do it do it like that
clamp that bitch in there lockdown and
if you get kicked in the nuts wearing
those tie cups the guy who kicks you is
the one that's hurt yeah yeah and if
you're not gonna wear that and you want
to get the mental advantage where the
thong but on backwards it's not just
that but in jiu-jitsu it's a spectacular
leverage point like if you this is hump
a steel hump where your dick is right
and if you get an armbar there oh yes my
friend Amir Amir anavar do I roll with
him once and he mounted me and drove his
dick into my chest with his to steal
Thai Cup and I was like fuck that's
really painful he's like yeah that's why
we're it was like wow I never even
thought of that because instead of that
position being just a bad position to be
in
now it was really fucking painful few
people can say they've tapped to a dick
I didn't tap to it but it was hurt I
time to something else here's the deal
though I bet some people have oh yeah
you would tap to it yeah if you didn't
know what the fuck you were doing for
sure like if some guy got on top of you
and there was your first rodeo yeah he's
got a tie Cup on and he's literally in
your sternum especially if they're
skilled they know today was painful and
I was like oh but it opened up a door I
was like well of course but then we were
talking about leverage points and I was
like well a leverage point like for I
don't I believe they're illegal in IB JJ
tournaments and a lot of jiu-jitsu
tournaments because of the fact that it
creates this fulcrum because why would
you wear a cup when you roll though
anyway if it's just well I would I've
got my dick busted once I work up when I
roll well yeah Diamond MMA cup diamond
MMA mix he's amazing I'll get you one
you should wear it protect you dick how
did you my friend Einstein did it
shoutout to Einstein Scott Epstein he's
the instructor at tenth planet West LA
it's not he wasn't his fault
it was just a thing that happened he was
trying to pass my guard and he was
trying to slice his knee through and he
landed firmly on my dick and I didn't
have a cup and so I thought everything
it hurt but we kept going blah blah blah
the end of the workout I went to the
locker room and my jockstrap was filled
with blood I was like well that's not
good and so I peed and all this blood
came out and that's not good and but my
dick didn't hurt that bad so I was like
okay do I go to the doctor or do I treat
it like my nose so I treated like my
nose good call cuz if my nose is
bleeding I was a beggar now yeah happens
all the time I'm gonna treat like my
nose at least for a little bit before I
have to go to the doc and say I broke my
dick so I decided well let's see if it
still works so I went home and jerked
off so when I went home and jerked off
it was like you ever get an egg and
there's like kind of like a half a
chicken in that egg yeah it's like blood
and like chaos that's what the load
looked like I was like wow it still
works
but that's not supposed to look like
that so I said let's touch and go let's
see what it's like in the morning and in
the morning it's like my dick just
seemed normal it seemed fine I peed in
the morning though
any blood anymore so I kept an eye on it
and then eventually I didn't do anything
but I was I was super concerned but I
immediately went and got a really good
cup and doesn't change the way you roll
at all next feel like it'd be
uncomfortable no no it doesn't you don't
even notice it okay you don't even
notice it that my favorite of the
Diamonds because the diamond MMA cup is
a compression it's a cup that curves
under so it goes like to the taint but
it's in compression shorts so it's
really snug down and it's designed that
way and if there's a there's he gave me
a bunch of them to give them away so I
have one for you we're gonna give one
away too recently we gave one to
somebody that was here
doom guy Oh Hugo Hugo Martin who was one
of the shout out to Hugo who was the
creator one of the creators of doom
eternals this new amazing video game's
gonna ruin my life the best I could find
is this here shall wear a groin
protector of their own selection as ty
proved by the commissioner yeah see
so doesn't say yeah you have to but
that's mm eh that's okay I thought this
was the idea yeah see sits male mixed
martial artists shall wear okay now
other type approved by the commissioner
the commissioners may say you can't wear
a steel one but Kenny Florian throughout
his whole career wore a steel tie Cup
cut to jujitsu diabetes Jeff says you
can't do that yes you can't okay
Eric that's right cannot be fast of hard
material that may cause harm to opponent
out okay see that's why because the
steel Cup is a significant advantage if
you get into a position you're in an
armbar position it's like doing an
armbar over a rock as you say it seem
like it's supercharged in the other two
points it's yes it has a big effect it's
really good but Kenny said that he'd
never had to worry about getting kicked
in the nuts because it always hurt the
opponent we heard him and then Tie
Fighters I mean you think the wig ties
kick they could kick better than anybody
on the planet and they're always
throwing leg kicks so the odd the
possibility of kicking the nuts is
always there so with them that tie steel
Cup was imperative and they went for
function over comfort so the tie cup is
just not a good time
got a sidetracked into a previous
question - okay in France swimming
loose-fitting trunks are not allowed to
be weird by men to wear
tight-fitting who is the governing body
on this fascism I love cool I guess I
don't know they want to see the outline
it's super creepy don't want to see what
you're smuggling yeah they told me yes I
checked
who's enforcing this I don't know
someone Monsieur Monsieur yeah your
shorts are too loose what do you have in
your shirts that's probably quite James
Bond's always wearing speedos and that I
guess but isn't he British like he's
hanging out in like pillows and it's
true is just complying with the local
laws I guess yeah good point
Google Thai steel cup yeah I need it so
you can see what's this bad boy is now I
don't recommend this for Rowling's I
think it's rude to your training
partners but like I said my friend of
mere he fucking open my eyes to it
because I'd never thought about that way
okay see that's what it looks like when
it's fully leather because it's oh
that's a diamond one so that's the one
that I use that's the shit and like I
said I'm gonna give you one before you
you leave here you'll you'll you'll
swear by it just one good dick injury
and you're gonna go okay this is not
worth it and again I was doing jujitsu
for probably 12 there it is that's a
Thai steel cup I was doing jujitsu for
probably 12 years before I had this dick
injury so it's not that common
so that bottom strap at the old Thai got
through with you right through the crash
[Laughter]
thank you not comfortable I'm sure it
sucks but it's I think in a Thai fight
it's probably mandatory or yeah that
might be getting a gunfight too might
have ricochet yeah
yeah right someone wants kicking the
nuts and they're just hitting metal
no thank you yeah well that's what Kenny
said Kenny said listen if somebody kicks
me in the nuts it's bad for them makes
sense probably wouldn't do it twice yeah
I mean you rarely see nut shots in Thai
fights and I really think that's
probably a big part of it cuz they know
there's a fucking steel cup there just a
barrier plus in a fight like that I
don't think a nut shots necessarily
gonna end it to you well nut shots can
do terrible damage there's a guy that
fought in the UFC Brian Greene and in
barring one time he decided to not wear
cup I think it was like just the last
couple rounds of sparring and he just
said look I'm just gonna go lie to
whatever some guy kicked him his nuts
and it's not exploded so he lost one of
his testicles you got to think of how
hard a person can kick you know think
about a guy like style bender kicking
you in the nuts think about you know
like a real good kickboxer kicking you
and it hit that little mushy little
organ that makes all that sit against
something to flatten it and splatter it
and it can never heal yeah they explode
man your balls can explode not good you
know so that's what happened to this one
gentleman who was a professional fighter
he was a military guy I'm pretty sure
and lost a ball what do you think's
gonna happen with professional fighting
as this goes on in what way with the UFC
yeah the cards that they have lined up
dude they're gonna fly it on a
battleship they're gonna take khabib and
Tony and put them in international
waters and helicopter everybody in I
don't know honestly I know I mean they
can't have the crowds no they can't have
crowds not a while I mean this fight is
supposed to take place April 18th that's
not that far from now where is it
supposed to take place supposed to be in
Brooklyn but it's not gonna be in
Brooklyn they've already shut that down
yeah they've shut it down this is it's
they don't know how long it's gonna take
for this virus to run its cycle yeah and
it could conceivably take a year I don't
know man this that's the weirdest thing
about all this is like sometimes when
I'm in bed at night like I'll get up to
take a leak or something like that uncle
this is crazy like no one knows what's
happening no one knows what's going to
happen and then we're relying on
politicians to make these decisions and
these choices and based on disease
experts who weren't adequately funded or
prepared to take this on in the first
place apparently the Trump
administration and got rid of the
pandemic office there was a whole office
it's supposed to be I've seen both the
yay and nay on that one
people like fact-checked it is not true
and then other people are saying that he
did that's a good question because the
woman who asked Trump kind of caught him
off guard and he wasn't aware of it yeah
there's so many stupid fucking there's
this one lady that there's this video of
her saying I heard that someone in your
office referred to it as the cum flu I
saw that yeah like in like is this the
time to worry about this he goes who who
did it
she they didn't know and then they did
the same thing to Kellyanne Conway and
they're asking her when she's like well
do you know my husband's half asian my
children Rajon how do you think I'm
Breit like what do you I'm not gonna do
in hypothetical she's like this is a
nonsense conversation but it's this
goddamn social justice narrative that
people are still trying to push even in
times of crisis who called it the come
flu like if Bobbi macfay s-- called it
come flu and you got a video of a hey
Bobby don't do that that's kind of
fucked up
yeah but do you don't even have a name
you said you heard someone called it to
kung fu and this is what you want to
talk to the president about you have one
goddamn question the name of a thing
died circle of influence versus circle
of concern also this is something that
they know makes people upset and it's
something they know that it can get a
rise yeah and something they know that
can contraction in terms of a news story
which is the exact opposite of what they
should be doing exactly well this is
what you you know you the one good thing
about this is it highlights how much
nonsense
we put credence to how much nonsense we
spend time paying attention to and that
stuff when you're just trying to get
food and toilet paper and stay healthy
and not get a fucking killer disease all
those other things throw they get thrown
out the window and that's the good thing
about this that's the one of the only
good things the other good thing I think
is I'm hoping this gives us a greater
sense of community I mean I'm hoping the
people come together I really do
I really hope people come together and
they realize that this is we have had it
so easy and it's one of the reasons why
we complaining about stupid shit is
because we had it so easy yeah and I
hope it tightens this social contract
that we should have where we're taking
care of older generations and everything
in between
yeah and I hope they do if they didn't
used to have a pandemic Department that
was shut down find out that's true since
we're here was we are in the middle of
talking about this did the Trump
administration closed down I've seen
them in multiple toasts where it said
they did and then
multiple where it said they did is the
problem with today there's so much
bullshit out there Andy so much bullshit
it's so hard and it's easy for guys like
us we have you know hundreds of pounds
of meat sitting around our families are
fed you know we don't have to worry
about it like a lot of people do would
you give that meat away to people in
need I'm giving that meat away I'm
giving it to all my riches and giving it
away to a lot of my friends but I try to
give something to Duncan but his wife
won't let him come back why she's scared
yeah she's scared well they're their new
parents we have a one-year-old she's you
know she's a young girl yeah his outfit
was amazing I know yours is not bad
either
Bob warned that one man is my go-to I'm
too stoned the outfit NASA suit with
something less it's a Power Move though
yeah you could just sit there yeah I'm
in space bitch yeah meanwhile Duncan's
got a face mask are those fucking
ghillie suits are so uncomfortable fuck
he kept falling down like I'm saying
that you like a fat white trash lady in
Florida that's got a halter top oh yeah
it's just like you gotta kind of keep
pulling that thing up while you're
yelling at your husband the concept is
great they don't work it's just so heavy
you sweat your ass so if it's exhausting
just take all that shit off yeah I would
feel like just sick subalpine camo would
be just as effective you're hiding when
I went through Sniper school they gave
you a ghillie suit and before this there
was the shooting face first and then the
stock stalking phase and you're like
taking off burlap in these intricate
patterns and we did stocking out in
Nylund which is the deserts of high
desert of California by the chocolate
mountains and there's just a couple it's
sparse some trees some brushes ghillie
suit fuck me and you're crawling and the
Sun is hitting you and it's like it's
glowing it's just like huh and then so
you spent like months getting these
things ready and then you just got
scissors out just cutting all of this
crap off just renders wait what the the
light reflects to it differently as so
what you're better off - this is
grabbing local like foliage in the area
and just jamming it
in there okay and you can move it's just
they're miserable it was horrendous
experience the idea of kammo with
animals is so interesting to me you know
because when when I first found out that
animals don't see things the way we see
things they see movement yeah
but makes sense you know like they have
to that's that's what keeps them alive
something twitches like what the fuck
was that is that something real you have
you seen elk kind of look in your
direction not even sure what you are
yeah like what are you yeah like bitch
you don't even know yeah it's like this
weird movement thing where they like
just waiting to see movement if you
don't move long enough he could stay
still long enough they just go about
their business yeah but then they come
check back again that's what they bust
me patient sometimes from time to time
now that you're living in Montana how
often you getting to go hunt you know I
actually didn't use my Montana tag last
year I thought I didn't I had success in
Alberta I got a bowl there in a mule
deer and then I had success on that last
day in Utah and I didn't I didn't have
the room for any more meat so I ate my
Montana deer and elk tag oh wow yeah
well good for you
yeah the opportunity is there for sure
though I almost feel like for me I would
have maybe gone and donated the meat
because it's like one of the things
about and people say why would you do
that one of the things about hunting is
I think you have to do it a lot
it's like stand-up or jujitsu or a lot
there's a lot of things where the
experience is so intense and so alien
from everyday life that you have to be
accustomed to like one of the things
about fighting that I always found like
I fought way better when I fought often
because of like like one of my biggest
tournaments at r1 was the American open
then I won right out I fought one week
and then I fought the next week and I'm
like I feel so normal it's feel so
normal to fight like I just did it
there's our currency aspect yeah yeah
it's the same thing and all this stuff
like the skydiving in base jump and
stuff I used to do the more you do it
it's you're on autopilot yeah you get
used to that experience yeah the farther
from the exposure you strike yeah it
doesn't feel quite right or then you
start like
is this how I do this like is this how
you route that my first hunt every year
is always weird that's one of the
reasons why I really like going to Lanai
first because first of all there's like
an actual ethical imperative to kill
animals one yeah they have to they need
you to be a savage murderer
No yeah they fucking have 30,000 deer in
a tiny island with 3,000 people yeah so
they need you to do but and it also it's
really hard to do like bow hunting on
Lanai one of the things that Dudley and
I found out and cam on our last hunt
last year the we go how many people are
bow hunting this year is like a lot well
how many people are successful he goes
we had a hundred and fifty hunts 150
hunters last year one was successful
everybody else pulled out the rifle like
why whoa one guy was successful bow
hunting in the time that we were there
to the time that we were there again you
know oh here my gosh shit man
they're so wired me got to tell you yeah
I was there it was crazy but you do get
a bunch of reps out like if you had a
little rust you need to duck yeah knock
off that is where it's gonna you'll be
yes if you get this zone there and you
can start getting in on them you are
gonna be a ninja on some western Rocky
Mountain stuff the one axis deer that I
shot last year Dudley and I crawled for
a good solid hour and a half till we got
to position mean we fucking creepy
creepy crawled until we got behind this
bush yeah and then I shot this deer like
50-plus yards from my knees and and
whacked him and it was like that was a
hard-earned
oh yeah harder and kill and that's a far
shot on one of those things yes cuz
those fuckers are so fast I vote we have
a video of me shooting one at 80 and the
deer is just sitting there eating
feeding yea the arrow because I have a
lighted nock arrows tracking in in
flight headed to the pump station 15
yards away he's like he hears it he's
gone so yeah this hours going 290 feet a
second 15 yards away from him he hears
it and he's gone and then by the time
the arrow got to him his physical body
was no longer there it's like here he is
it's going right there and then the
arrows are he's like Chum by when I was
there with barklow he had a
a merman behind him and I think his Shah
was inside of 40 and the guy was taking
high-speed pictures just and you see the
arrow release and the animal is calm and
in the next frame this striations that
are visible in the everyw to include
like its nose every muscle in the animal
and the arrow is just like a little bit
out of the bow and then by the time
where the arrow hits the thing is like
halfway off the frame I'm like yeah well
we found is you got to hunt him in the
afternoon because it's windy and they
don't hear anything
we had four days out there where it was
like just enough wind that it would
swirl and barkal and I just trudged
through and just discussed the more in
the most optimum ways to like commit
suicide in the evenings cam shot one
bedded at 70 yards he hit a frontal shot
at 70 yards right in the pump station
because these campaigns could be savage
but it's like the perfect shot at 70
yards and like that's how you do it like
they don't hear it because it's so far
away yeah I think was better than it was
windy that first one I actually shot
there was bedded - yeah that's a way to
do it if you can catch embedded at least
you have this like window where they
have to get to their feet before they
can run it's not a big window that's not
a big well are you talking about an
animal that evolved get away from Tigers
yeah
no they I've never been around an animal
that was more tuned up or keyed up than
that and also the pressure they get
hunted 365 days a year
and then there's snipers that come there
every day just to reduce the population
because they have to right they have to
and but also they feed the locals they
eat great yeah I mean they're eating the
best meat on earth hard to describe to
people how good access deer is so
delicious it's so delicious for elk over
it just by a touch well it's a little
more tender than elk which is
interesting because they're so fast you
think like I had some elk last night it
was delicious but like this is a chew to
it you know elk is like I like it but my
kids aren't chewy
how was that elk heart you it fantastic
elk are tacos so good hard pass on that
no exploratory with my food all you
tacos but I needed to be like
out of the sirloin well when I went
carnivore one of the things I started
eating is I started eating a lot of
liver organ meats yeah I buy a lot of
beef liver and buy that all the time
whenever stores have it I buy beef liver
no it's really good for you I'm gonna
take a hard pass on that too
mmm it's good leave it off for me that's
fine you deliver all of that eggs
I've been eating a lot of eggs did I
best I ever felt was when I went
carnivore for a month strict carnivore
for a month I didn't do anything but
carnivore like occasionally I'll have
like a grape or something like that and
maybe I ate all of what you come off of
it oh because I just committed to it for
January yeah and I'm not really off of
it I just I'm mostly eating that way and
then occasionally I'll fuck off and have
a piece of apple pie like during this
apocalypse I've been kind of eating
whatever because I'm figure like well
this apocalypse is going on I'm just you
know taking calories cuz I don't want to
be a prissy diet person when you know
all I can have is rice variable
discipline I'm in the same way I can eat
an entire trash bag full of popcorn and
I will sometimes but it's just a concern
is it could get to the pole like I don't
want to have my body adjust to eating
regular food when that might be the only
thing available I'm really concerned
that could we could come down to a
supply chain problem and a food problem
and you know if that does happen
look it this is one thing this is one
thing a virus what if one thing gets
compounded by solar flares that knock
out the power grid or an earthquake or
multiple things that could happen
simultaneously at any time we're gonna
find out who people really are really
fast yes yes aren't Andy we just hit
three hours we did yeah
that's how you do that I guess how crazy
is that 3 hours and 10 minutes it's over
it's 3:10 now and we did it for is it
310 or we did 3 or 2 all right
320 it's according to that thing don't
which one's right this one it's 310 oh
that one says 3 203 20 is the date you
fucking retard all right love to you all
thank you everybody
Andy stump thank you tell everybody your
podcast cleared hot available on iTunes
every
look your Instagram and Twitter Andy
stump - one - on Instagram a stump or
Andy stone saw that for people can't a
ND y st u MP f as in go fuck yourself -
one - alright thank you brother
appreciate you man
yep thanks wrapping always fun bye
[Music]